---
week: 1
day: 1
title: 'GOD CREATES EVRYTHING'
bible: 'Genesis 1:1-2:3'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}

- Children who will understand that God created everything
- Children who will thank God for all that He has done


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}

The Bible is divided into 66 books. Genesis is the very first book in the Bible. The Bible, eternal and unchanging, is a true history- it is God's story of what really happened.

- The word "genesis" means "beginnings" or "origins."
- All things had a beginning. Nothing/no one (except God) existed before the beginning.
- "Created" means "to make out of nothing." Only God can do this. Only God is all powerful. Nothing is too hard for God.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}

Dear God, Thank You that we can read and study Your word, the Bible. Thank You that we can learn about You and all the things You have created. Help us as we study Your word. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}

Psalm 33:8-9
> 8 Let all the earth fear the LORD; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him!
> 9 For he spoke, and it came to be; he commanded, and it stood firm.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}

What is the most favorite thing you have made? An artwork? A toy?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}

The Bible is God's Word to us about who He is and how we are to live for Him. The beginning of the Bible tells us how He created everything; that God spoke and He created all things. He did all of this in six days and on the seventh day He rested.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}

Read and story tell to your child `Genesis 1:1-2:3`; [`Genesis 1:1-23` and `Genesis 1:24-2:3`] (You may divide the passage into two parts with younger children)


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}

### Rope Game

- Get a piece of rope that is 15 feet long and tie the ends together.
- You, your child, and other family members (the more the merrier) will get in a circle with each one holding on to the rope.
- Start moving the rope in one direction.
- When you say "STOP," the person closest to the knot has to say the next part of the story.
- Continue doing this till the story is told.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}

1. What were the thing God created?
2. What were you imagining as the story was being told? How did it make you feel?
3. From our Bible passage today, what do you think is God teaching you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}

> Dear God, Thank You for creating everything. From the sky to every living thing on the earth. Help me Lord to always remember what we have learned today. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

