---
week: 1
day: 2
title: 'GOD CREATES EVRYTHING'
bible: 'Genesis 1:1-2:3'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children who will understand that God created every- thing - Children who will thank God for all that He has done

## 2. Note to Parent
The Bible is divided into 66 books. Genesis is the very first book in the Bible. The Bible, eternal and unchanging, is a true history- it is God's story of what really happened.
- The word "genesis" means "beginnings" or "origins."
- All things had a beginning. Nothing/no one (except God) existed before the beginning.
- "Created" means "to make out of nothing." Only God can do this. Only God is all powerful. Nothing is too hard for God.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for being our wonderful Creator. Thank You for everything you have created like the ani- mals, the trees, and even us. Help us Lord to understand Your word. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 33:8-9-8 Let all the earth fear the LORD; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him! 9 For he spoke, and it came to be; he commanded, and it stood firm. Psalm 33:8-9

## 5. Story Opening
What is your favorite animal that God has created? Why?

## 6. Story Background
The Bible says that in the beginning, God spoke and He created all things. We don't know when he created the angels, but they are spoken of throughout the Bible. Their job is to serve God and to worship Him. While God was forming the earth, the angels were already there wor- shipping God and saying how great He is.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and story tell to your child Genesis 1:1-2:3: [Genesis 1:1-23 and Genesis 1:24-2:3) (You may divide the passage into two parts with younger children)

## 8. Story Retell
Drawing - If you have the materials, have your child draw what he/she saw or what he/she liked best as the story was being told. Have your child share their pictures with the rest of the family. If there are differ- ent scenes from the story, have the children put them in the order that they occurred. Or, assign the differ- ent scenes to different children or family members.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How did God respond when He created everything?
2. What did you like about the story? Is there anything you didn't like? 3.How can you respond to what God has done, based on what we have learned today?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for the remind- er in the Bible that You are a good God and You are the source of good things. Help me to always remember this. Help me also to be thankful for everything that You do. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

