---
week: 2
day: 1
title: 'GOD CREATES ADAM'
bible: 'Genesis 2:4-8'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children will understand that God created us in His image - Children will appreciate and be thankful for the life that the Lord gave them

{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
God had lovingly, carefully, perfectly created everything in preparation for His final creation: man! Isaiah 45:18 says that God made the earth to be inhabited, that is, lived in! All man would ever need was waiting and ready.
* The creation of Adam (Genesis 1:27, 2:7)
- Only God could put life into Adam
* Adam was the first and only man God created from the ground (Genesis 2:7)


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Thank You for another week that we can read and study Your word, the Bible. Thank You for creating everything. Help us as we study the Bible. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Genesis 1:27-27So God created man in His own image, in the image of God He created Him; male and female He created them. Verse explanation: -We know it is not talking about our bodies. God doesn't have a body of flesh and bones like we do. -Instead, God was referring to the part which cannot be seen. The Bible calls this part of us which cannot be seen our soul and our spirit. Man's body was created to be the "house" of this unseen part, the soul and the spirit. - God planned that the unseen part of man would have a mind, emotions, and a will, created in the image of God.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is something special about you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
In the first book of the Bible, Genesis, it tells us how God created the different things we see in this world. The last thing God creates is man. In our short Bible story today, we will learn more details about how God created man.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 2:4-8


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Ball Game - When you say "GO," the children pass the ball around the circle until you say "STOP." The person who has the ball has to say the next part of the story. When you say "GO," the children start passing the ball till you say "STOP." 0r, chil- dren can toss or roll the ball to anyone they choose to say the next part.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. How did the story describe God's relationship with the characters?
2. In what ways are we also like Adam? In what ways are we differ- ent?
3. Because of today's story, what dif- ference might this make in how you love and serve God?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You for creating us to have a mind, emotion, and will. Help us Lord to live for You each day. Help us to take care of the bodies You gave us. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

