---
week: 2
day: 2
title: 'GOD CREATES ADAM'
bible: 'Genesis 2:4-8'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children will understand that God created us in His image - Children will appreciate and be thankful for the life that the Lord gave them

{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
God had lovingly, carefully, perfectly created everything in preparation for His final creation: man! Isaiah 45:18 says that God made the earth to be inhabited, that is, lived in! All man would ever need was waiting and ready.
* The creation of Adam (Genesis 1:27, 2:7)
- Only God could put life into Adam
* Adam was the first and only man God created from the ground (Genesis 2:7)


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Thank You for another week that we can read and study Your word, the Bible. Thank You for creating everything. Help us as we study the Bible. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Genesis 1:27-27So God created man in His own image, in the image of God He created Him; male and female He created them. Verse explanation:
- We know it is not talking about our bodies. God doesn't have a body of flesh and bones like we do.
- Instead, God was referring to the part which cannot be seen. The Bible calls this part of us which cannot be seen our soul and our spirit. Man's body was created to be the "house" of this unseen part, the soul and the spirit.
- God planned that the unseen part of man would have a mind, emotions, and a will, created in the image of God.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is a special talent you have? How have you been able to use it?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God created everything. In the book of Psalms, in chapter 139, it says that God created each person fearfully and wonderfully. Let's see what is unique about how God cre- ated us.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 2:4-8


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Count to Fifty - Slowly count to 50 and see if the children can retell the story before you hit 50 (or another number that works for the story)


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What did you notice about God from the story?
2. How do you feel about God now?
3. Based on what we learned today about God how will you respond?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You for creating each person fearfully and wonder- fully. Thank You for making us unique in every way. Help us to love others as how You loved us. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

