---
week: 3
day: 1
title: 'GOD CREATES EVE'
bible: 'Genesis 2:18-25'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will understand that God made us for a certain purpose
- Children will understand that God is with us and does not want us to be alone

## 2. Note to Parent
* God knew that Adam needed a companion (Genesis 2:18):
- Because God loved Adam and wanted the best for him, He decided to make a companion for him
* God brought all the animals before Adam to be named by him (Genesis 2:19-20)
* There was no suitable companion for Adam among the animals (Genesis 2:20)
* God created Eve from Adam's ribs (Genesis 2:21-22)

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for another week that we can read and study Your word, the Bible. Thank You for creating us and giving us life. Help us as we study Your word today. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


## 4. Memory Verse:
Genesis 2:22-23-22 And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man. 23 Then the man said, "This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man." Genesis 2:22

## 5. Story Opening
Describe something that is really beautiful


## 6. Story Background
God has been creating all the different things that we see in this world. He made everything in the skies, the land, and the waters. He created all the animals. He specially created a man who would be called Adam. But is this all God would create?

## 7. Bible Story
Genesis 2:18-25

## 8. Story Retell
Partners - Have the you and your children get into smaller groups of two to three children. Each child will take a turn retelling the story. If someone gets stuck and can't re- member the next part, the others in the group can help them.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Who were the different characters or groups of characters in the story? 2.What do you think was the most important part of today's story? 3.Based on what we learned today about God how will you respond?


## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for helping us understand our lesson for today. Thank You for my family, my friends, for my church and for all the people in my life that with. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

