---
week: 3
day: 2
title: 'GOD CREATES EVE'
bible: 'Genesis 2:18-25'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children will understand that God made us for a certain purpose
- Children will understand that God is with us and does not want us to be alone


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
* God knew that Adam needed a companion (Genesis 2:18):
- Because God loved Adam and wanted the best for him, He decided to make a companion for him
* God brought all the animals before Adam to be named by him (Genesis 2:19-20)
* There was no suitable companion for Adam among the animals (Genesis 2:20)
* God created Eve from Adam's ribs (Genesis 2:21-22)


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Thank you for the people around us who love and care for us. Thank you for always being with us. Help us to always trust in You. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Genesis 2:22-23-22 And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man. 23 Then the man said, "This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man." Genesis 2:22


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Who are some people who help? What have they helped you with?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Every animal that God created had a partner. There was only one that did not. It was His special creation the man. God knew that he also needed someone. God had a special plan here, too!


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 2:18-25


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Comic Strip - Give each child a sheet of paper. Have them fold it in half, then fold that half again and then a third time. When you open the paper, there should be 8 boxes on the paper. For each scene or action in the Bible story, have each child draw a simple picture or object in each box in the order that it happens in the story. Let the children retell the story to a partner by using their comic strips.



{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Did you hear anything that reminded you of previous stories? What connections did you make?
2. What were you imagining as the story was being told? How did it make you feel?
3. Who can you share this story with this week?



{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You for the remind- er in your word that we are never alone. Thank you for being there for us even in the different situations in our lives. Help me to be a blessing to the people around me. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

