---
week: 4
day: 1
title: 'GOD GIVES ADAM AND EVE THE GARDEN OF EDEN'
bible: 'Genesis 1:27-30; 2:8-9,15-17'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will understand that each one of us has a purpose
- Children will know that God provides for our needs

## 2. Note to Parent
God is not like us. He never gives up on what He plans to do. When He starts something, He always finishes it.
* God finished making all that He planned (Genesis 2:1)
* Man placed as manager over the earth (Genesis 1:28-30):
- God put Adam in charge of the earth and everything in it. Man was to look after God's things here on earth and to rule over the fish, the birds, and the animals.
* God put Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden (Genesis 2:8)
- When God had the garden ready, He put Adam there.
- God told Adam to take care of the garden, but Adam didn't need to work hard because everything was perfect.
* The tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil (Genesis 2:9)

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank you that we can read and study the Bible. Help us to not just remember the things we have learned, but to also apply it in our lives. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 24:1-1 The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein.

## 5. Story Opening
If you could live anywhere, where would you like to be?

## 6. Story Background
God has created everything: sky, moon, stars, plants, animals, birds, fish, a man, and a woman. Where will God have them live?

## 7. Bible Story
Genesis 1:27-30; 2:8-9, 15-17

## 8. Story Retell
Rope Game - Get a piece of rope that is 15 feet long and tie the ends together. Have the children get in a circle with each one holding on to the rope. Start moving the rope in one direction. When you say "STOP," the person closest to the knot has to say the next part of the story. Continue doing this till the story told.

## 9. Story Questions

1. What did you notice about God from the story?
2. What did you like about the story? Is there anything you didn't like?
3. Based on what we learned today about God how will you respond?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for giving us a place to stay in, food for us to eat, and instructions for our guidance and protection. Help me to always be thankful and also to help those who are in need. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

