---
week: 4
day: 2
title: 'GOD GIVES ADAM AND EVE THE GARDEN OF EDEN'
bible: 'Genesis 1:27-30; 2:8-9,15-17'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will understand that each one of us has a purpose
- Children will know that God provides for our needs

## 2. Note to Parent
God is not like us. He never gives up on what He plans to do. When He starts something, He always finishes it.
* God finished making all that He planned (Genesis 2:1)
* Man placed as manager over the earth (Genesis 1:28-30):
- God put Adam in charge of the earth and everything in it. Man was to look after God's things here on earth and to rule over the fish, the birds, and the animals.
* God put Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden (Genesis 2:8)
- When God had the garden ready, He put Adam there.
- God told Adam to take care of the garden, but Adam didn't need to work hard because everything was perfect.
* The tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil (Genesis 2:9)

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for providing for our needs each and every day. Thank you for the world you created. Bless us as we study Your Word. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 24:1-1 The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein.

## 5. Story Opening
 What food do you like the most? Which ones do you like the least?

## 6. Story Background
God created a world that would provide the best for His ultimate creation: Adam and Eve. He would also provide the best place for them to live. Let's hear about it in this story.

## 7. Bible Story
Genesis 1:27-30; 2:8-9, 15-17

## 8. Story Retell
Group Poster If you have the ma- terials, have the children work together on making a poster that can tell the Bible story. Allow the children to retell the story by using what they drew on the poster.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How does God respond to the people in the story? What does this show us?
2. Why do you think God put this story in the Bible?
3. From what you learned today, what do you feel God is might be saying to you?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank you for the remind- er in the Bible that You are the cre- ator of everything. Remind us always to be thankful and to take care of everything you have given us. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

