---
week: 5
day: 1
title: 'Adam and Eve: The First Sin'
bible: 'Genesis 3:1-7'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that Satan is a deceiver.
- For children to see that Satan is God's enemy and their enemy as well.
- For children to see the importance of knowing and understanding God's Word.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
1. Satan knew about God's warning to Adam concerning the tree of the knowledge of good and evil; this is shown how he falsely repeated this to Eve.
2. Satan hates God, and wants to destroy the man and woman God created therefore he planned to deceive Eve.
3. Satan used a serpent to do his plan - at this time he came to Eve in this snake-form sice, unlike today, the animals had not been harmful in any way to Adam and Eve or to each other, so Eve was not afraid.
4. Satan still deceives and destroys people. He does not use a serpent like he did with Eve but uses whatever way people will accept.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Our great God and Father, Thank you for you rWord that cautions us against our enemy, Satan. Continu eto strengthen us, and make us love your promises and commandments with all our hearts. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
- Romans 6:23 - For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
- Wages - payment
- Death - separation from God forever
- Eternal - goes on forever and ever


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Tell of a time when you were tricked or you tricked someone else


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Last week we talked about God creating all the things in this world as well as the angels. The most beautiful angel tried to rule over God -- but there is nothing greater than God. This angel, Satan, is still trying to get people to disobey and turn away from God. Let's see how he does it.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 3:1-7


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Back and Forth -- In this activity. You involve your child/children in retelling the story. You start by sharing the first incident of the story. Then your child shares the second incident that happened and so on until the story is completed.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Who were the different characters in the Bible story and what happened to them?
2. What do you think was going on in Eve's heart and mind in this story?
3. Because of today's Bible story, how might you live differently?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Oh LORD God, Thank you for your Faithful and True Word that is sufficient and powerful to remind us about your word and warn us about Satan and his ways of deceiving us. Give us the grace to respond in obedience. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

