---
week: 5
day: 2
title: 'Adam and Eve: The First Sin'
bible: 'Genesis 3:1-7'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that Satan is a deceiver.
- For children to see that Satan is God's enemy and their enemy as well.
- For children to see the importance of knowing and un- derstanding God's Word.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
1. Satan knew about God's warning to Adam concerning the tree of the knowledge of good and evil; this is shown by how he falsely repeated this to Eve.
2. Satan hates God, and wants to destroy the man and woman he created therefore he planned to deceive Eve.
3. Satan used a serpent to do his plan - at this time he came to Eve in this snake-form since, unlike today, the animals had not been harmful in any way to Adam and Eve or to each other, so Eve was not afraid.
4. Satan still deceives and destroys people. He does not use a serpent like he did with Eve but uses whatever ways people will accept.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Our Great God and Father, Thank you for the opportunity to get back to your Word and learn. Thank you that we can be warned about Satan's deception, and be reminded to study and embrace your word. Give us the grace to respond to what you are teaching us. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
- Romans 6:23 - For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord
- Romans 6:23 Wages - payment; Death - separation from God forever, Eternal goes on forever and ever.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Share a time when something you really liked got ruined.


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God gives us choices. He wants us to love and obey Him because we want to not because we have to. God will continue to love us but there are things that will happen (consequences) because of the choices we make.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 3:1-7


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
 Arrange in order preparation, write the story on -1. As an advance strips of paper (or cardboard, for bigger visuals), one verse per paper. Do not put the verse number on the paper. 2. Leave blank some important words of the verse when you write them as your children will supply the words. 3. Shuffle or mix the paper in front of your children. 4. Make the children re-arrange the paper according to the correct se- quence of the story and supplying the missing words.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Satan is a deceiver, how did he deceive Eve?
2. What surprised you or amazed you about today's story?
3. How will you respond to God and his Word today?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
 Oh LORD God, Thank you for sending Jesus to save us from our sin. Continually cleanse us and strengthen us with your WORD that we may not sin against you. Give us the grace to love you more each day. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

