---
week: 6
day: 1
title: 'Adam and Eve: FELL SHAME'
bible: 'Genesis 3:7-13'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to learn that sin brought shame and fear to: man
- For children to understand that man willfully chose to disobey God
- For children to realize that sin cannot endure before the: holy God

## 2. Note to Parent
1. God warned in Gen. 2:17 that they would die if they ate of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. But we can see that they did not drop dead immediately when they ate the fruit; they were still walking aroud and were making : coverings for themselves. Does this mean God's Word didn't come true? Was Satan right after all? NO. They were immediately separated from GOD when they ate the fruit. God ALWAYS does what he says; He never changes; He does not forget His threats to punish disobedience of His commands.
2. Because GOD is Holy and righteous, HE cannot continue in friendship with those who disobey His commands. God hates everything that is wrong and punishes disobedience: of His commands. Because Adam and Eve disobeyed God, they were cut off from their friendship with God. Their relationship with God was dead.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Our Great God and Father, Thank You for your Word which we can study once again today. May you open our hearts and give us the grace to respond to what you are teaching us about sin and its consequences. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Romans 3:23-25a - 23For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 24and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, 25whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. Romans 3:23.

## 5. Story Opening
If you could make all the decisions for a day, what is one rule that you would make sure was followed?

## 6. Story Background
God only had one rule for Adam and Eve to obey. They were not to eat the fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Except for that one rule, they could completely enjoy all that He had created for them. But Satan tempted them and they ate from the tree. They disobeyed God. What would they do? How would they feel?

## 7. Bible Story
Genesis 3:7-13

## 8. Story Retell
 Act it out 1. As you tell the story, act out the key thoughts in the passage (e.g. "they heard", would be putting your hands behind your ears and moving your body forward as if to listen to something) until the end. 2. In the Retell, have your kids repeat the story as you did, telling it using the action and according to the right sequence.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Describe the reaction of Adam and Eve when they heard the voice of the LORD in the garden after eating the fruit. What does this show us?
2. How do you feel about God in the story?
3. How are you similar to Adam and Eve? And What can you do to obey God?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Oh Lord our GOD, Thank you for your love and great mercy and grace to- wards us despite our sin. We are hopeless apart from you. We need you indeed, 0 LORD. Thank you for the LORD Jesus Christ who came into the world to save us from sin. In Jesus Name we pray, Amen.


