---
week: 6
day: 2
title: 'Adam and Eve: FELL SHAME'
bible: 'Genesis 3:7-13'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that sin brought shame and fear to man
- For children to understand that man willfully chose to disobey God
- For children to realize that sin cannot endure before the: holy God


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
 1. God warned in Gen. 2:17 that they would die if they ate of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. But we can see that they did not drop dead immediately when they ate the fruit; they were still walking around and were making coverings for themselves. Does this mean God's Word didn't come true? Was Satan right after all? NO. They were immediately separated from GOD when they ate the fruit. God ALWAYS does what he says; He never changes; He does not forget His threats to punish disobedience of His commands. 2.Because GOD is Holy and righteous, HE cannot continue in friendship with those who disobey His commands. God: hates everything that is wrong and punishes disobedience of His commands. Because Adam and Eve disobeyed God, they were cut off from their friendship with God. Their relationship with God was dead.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Our Great God and Father, Thank you for your WORD which is Faithful and True. Thank you for how this written historical event will warn us and teach us about what sin brings into our lives. Keep us in you dear God. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Romans 3:23-25a 23For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 24and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, 25whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be re- ceived by faith. Romans 3:23.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Was there a time that you were tempted to do something? What was it?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Adam and Eve have disobeyed God - they ate from the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Satan lied to them and they sinned against God. How would God feel? What would He do?


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 3:7-13


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Hot Potato -1. Have a small ball or any item you may pass around, 2. You hold the ball and start by stating the first incident in the story 3. Throw the ball to your child as if it were a hot potato, and he tells the next incident upon catching 4. He throws it back to you and you say the next part. (You may enjoin Papa or other kids in this.) 5. This goes on until the story is finished.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. How did the story describe God's relationship with the characters?
2. What were you imagining as the story was being told? How did it make you feel? 3.From what you learned today, what do you feel God might be asking you to do?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Oh Lord our GOD, Thank you for your Word that is alive and active. Your Word that is sharper than any dou- ble-edged sword penetrating our soul and spirit, our joints and our marrows. Your Word that judges the thoughts and the attitudes of our hearts. In Jesus Name we pray. Amen.

