---
week: 7
day: 1
title: 'Adam and Eve:CONSEQUENCES OF THE FALL'
bible: 'Genesis 3:14-21'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For your children to realize that this sin terribly affected the whole creation thereafter. For your children to learn that man from the oldest to the youngest, are cursed by God and born in sin being Adam and Eve's descendants.
- For your children to know that Adam and Eve's sin re- sulted to death.

## 2. Note to Parent
1. In Genesis 3:15, Once Adam and Eve disobeyed God and followed the advice of Satan, they were separated from God and controlled by Satan. They were no longer the children of God. They were Satan's children. Satan had become the ruler of this world. At this time, Satan proba- bly thought that he had beaten God and that he would now: have complete control of the world and all people. This is what Satan had wanted. But no one can win against God. God is the Almighty Creator.
2. God promised that He would send a deliverer who would win against (overcome) Satan and deliver mankind from his power. A deliverer is someone who rescues us or saves us - a deliverer sets us free.
3. The Bible story will explain the "mess we are in." We often hear people blaming God for their problems and for the problems of the world around us like the pandemic we are in. But Genesis 3 states the truth very clearly: Man's own sin is the cause of Man's problems. Our chil- dren need to know this truth.
4. Because Adam and Eve listened to Satan, they fell into his trap and disobeyed GOD. Therefore, from that time the ground would be cursed. Before Adam sinned, every-: thing grew without Adam doing any hard work. Weeds didn't grow and there were no pests.
5. All bad things in the world exist because of man's dis- obedience to GOD We live in a world that suffers from the curse. People constantly struggle against sickness, pain, weakness, pain in child-bearing, had work, difficult weather conditions, animal and insect pests, sorrow, grief and death, and deadly virus like this Covid19.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Our Great God and Father, Thank you for your Word today which will teach us of your Justice, your Grace, and your Mercy. May we respond with worship, with awe, and with obedience to You. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Genesis 3:17-And to Adam he said, "Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, You shall not eat of it,' cursed is the ground because of you; in pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life." Genesis 3:17b


## 5. Story Opening
Was there a time that you were tempted to do something? What was it?

## 6. Story Background
God has created this beautiful world for Adam and Eve to live in. They are allowed to do whatever they want, except one thing: they are not to eat the fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Satan comes and tempts them and they disobey what God has asked of them. What is going to happen to them? Let's find out.

## 7. Bible Story
Genesis 3:16-21

## 8. Story Retell
Count to Fifty - Slowly count to 50 and see if the children can retell the story before you hit 50 (or you may use another number that works for the story).

## 9. Story Questions
1. What exactly happened to the woman, to the man, to the ground, as a consequence of Adam and Eve's disobedience to GOD?
2. What do you think was the most important part of today's story?
3. Because of what you have learned today, would you like to trust Christ as LORD and Savior?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Oh Lord our GOD, We indeed have Sinned against you Have mercy on us, and forgrive us for our selfish- ness and disobedience Thank you for Jesus whom you sent to save us! We put our trust in Youl In Jesus name we pray, Amen

