---
week: 7
day: 2
title: 'Adam and Eve:CONSEQUENCES OF THE FALL'
bible: 'Genesis 3:14-21'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For your children to realize that this sin terribly affected the whole creation thereafter.
- For your chitdren to learn that man from the oldest to the youngest, are cursed by God and born in sin being Adam and Eve's descendants. For your children to know that Adam and Eve's sin re- sulted to death.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
1. In Genesis 3:15, Once Adam and Eve disobeyed God and followed the advice of Satan, they were separated from God and controlled by Satan. They were no longer the children of God. They were Satan's children. Satan had become the ruler of this world. At this time, Satan proba- bly thought that he had beaten God and that he would now; have complete control of the world and all people. This is what Satan had wanted. But no one can win against God. God is the Almighty Creator.
2. God promised that He would send a deliverer who would win against (overcome) Satan and deliver mankind from his power. A deliverer is someone who rescues us or saves us a deliverer sets us free.
3. The Bible story will explain the "mess we are in." We often hear people blaming God for their problems and for the problems of the world around us like the pandemic we are in. But Genesis 3 states the truth very clearly: Man's own sin is the cause of Man's problems. Our chil- dren need to know this truth.
4. Because Adam and Eve listened to Satan, they fell into: his trap and disobeyed GOD. Therefore, from that time on the ground would be cursed. Before Adam sinned, every- thing grew without Adam doing any hard work. Weeds didn't grow and there were no pests.
5. All bad things in the world exist because of man's dis- obedience to GOD, We live in a world that suffers from the curse. People constantly struggle against sickness, pain, weakness, pain in child-bearing, had work, difficult weather conditions, animal and insect pests, sorrow, grief: and death, and deadly virus like this Covid19.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Our Great God and Father, We thank you again for what we will learn from your Word today. Open our hearts so that we will understand the consequences of sin, so that we may properly respond with repentance, humility, and submission to your will. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Genesis 3:17 - And to Adam he said, "Because you have Listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, You shall not eat of it,' cursed is the ground because of you; in pain you shal eat of it all the days of your life" Genesis 3:17b


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
If you could eliminate one bad thing in our world, what would that be?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Why do so many bad things happen in our world? Where and when did it all begin? Let's hear and see how it all happened.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 3:16-21


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Rope Game - Get a piece of rope that is 15 feet long and tie the ends together. Have the children get in a circle with each one holding on to the rope. Start moving the rope in one direction. When you say "STOP," the person closest to the knot has to say the next part of the story. Continue doing this till the whole story is told.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What choices did the people make? What else could they have done? What happened because of the choices they made?
2. After hearing the story, how might it change how you view yourself?
3. Is there anyone you know who needs the good news of the gospel who would benefit from hearing this story from you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Oh Lord our GOD, Your Word is truth! Thank you for reminding us of our origins. Thank you for you are Good, still showing us grace and mercy up to this very day! Thank you for the LORD Jesus who came to save us. thank you for the gift of faith so that we can put our whole trust in Him, In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

