---
week: 8
day: 1
title: 'CAIN KILLS HIS BROTHER ABEL'
bible: 'Genesis 4:1-8'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children will see that man's ideas of how to please God & be acceptable to Him, are not God's ways. His ways, recorded in His Word (the Bible), are the only acceptable ones to Him.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
 -Although Adam & Eve have disobeyed God & have been sent out of the garden of Eden, Adam & Eve are enabled by God to have two sons - Cain & Abel.
- Cain & Abel were born sinners, because their father, Adam, was a sinner separated or cut off from God.
- Not only was Adam the father of Cain & Abel, but he was also the father of all peoples in the world. Therefore, all people in this world are born sinners, cut-off from God.
- God planned a way so people could come to Him be- cause He loved them. They would have to come to God in the way that God told them to come, by faith.
- God has not changed. He is still the same today. He does; not command us now to sacrifice animals, but He is still the Only One who can make a way for us to come to Him. We must come God's way, otherwise, He will reject us as He rejected Cain.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God Thank You that we can study again Your Word. Please help us know Your ways & the consequences of not obeying You. In Jesus name, Amen


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Proverbs 14:12 "There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way of death." Proverbs 14:12 A way of life may seem right to some people. But because it leads to death (separation from God) it is the way of sin & foolishness.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Can you tell of a time that you were given a task /chore? Did you do what you were asked to do? Why did you or did not do it?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God's plan was that when people came to Him, they had to bring an animal as an offering to Him. The animal wasa sacrifice - one that died in the place of sinner - until an acceptable payment was found. The blood sacrifice for sin was part of God's gracious plan to deliver mankind from sin & Satan & death.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read: Genesis 41-8
Focus: Genesis 41-5a.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
 Ask your child/children to draw pic- tures of Abel's offering & Cain's of- fering while they are retelling the story.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What did Cain bring as an offering? What did Abel bring? Which man did EXACTLY what God told them to do?
2. What do you feel is really import- ant to God?
3. Because of today's story how will you respond to God from now on?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God Thank you for loving us by showing Your plan on how we can come to You. Help us not to do things our own way but to come to You for help in the right way In Jesus' name. Amen


