---
week: 8
day: 2
title: 'CAIN KILLS HIS BROTHER ABEL'
bible: 'Genesis 4:1-8'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children will see that man's ideas of how to please God & be acceptable to Him, are not God's ways. His ways, recorded in His Word (the Bible), are the only acceptable ones to Him.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
 -Although Adam & Eve have disobeyed God & have been sent out of the garden of Eden, Adam & Eve are enabled by God to have two sons - Cain & Abel.
- Cain & Abel were born sinners, because their father, Adam, was a sinner separated or cut off from God.
- Not only was Adam the father of Cain & Abel, but he was also the father of all peoples in the world. Therefore, all people in this world are born sinners, cut-off from God.
- God planned a way so people could come to Him because He loved them. They would have to come to God in the way that God told them to come, by faith.
- God has not changed. He is still the same today. He does; not command us now to sacrifice animals, but He is still the Only One who can make a way for us to come to Him. We must come God's way, otherwise, He will reject us as He rejected Cain.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God Thank you for loving us by showing Your plan on how we can come to You. Help us not to do things our own way but to come to You for help in the right way In Jesus' name. Amen


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Proverbs 14:12 "There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way of death." Proverbs 14:12 A way of life may seem right to some people. But because it leads to death (separation from God) it is the way of sin & foolishness.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Have you ever been so angry? What happened when you got angry?

{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Both Cain and Abel brought offerings to God, but Cain brought an offering that HE thought was good, and Abel brought the offering that God told them to bring. God ac- cepted Abel's offering, who came to God by faith in the way that God required and rejected Cain's offering who tried to approach God in his own way. Cain was very angry & refused to listen to God.



{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 4:1-8 Focus: Genesis 4:5b-8.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Act it Out: Ask your child/ children to help act out the story as you are retelling it.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Why do you think God accepted Abel's offering & rejected Cain's of- fering?
2. In what ways are we like Cain? In what ways are we different?
3. What do you think do you need to do to learn more of God's ways?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God Thank You that You talk to us through Your Word the Bible. Please help me to listen to You & change any attitude that is not pleasing to You. In Jesus' name. Amen!



