---
week: 9
day: 1
title: 'NOAH BUILDS AN ARK'
bible: 'Genesis 6:11-22'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children to learn about God's character - His omniscience (able to know everything)
- Children to understand God's holiness and hatred against sin, His swift & sure judgment; and His gracious care & salvation for all who come to Him by faith.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- This lesson spans the time from Cain to Abel to Noah & the flood. By the time of Noah's generation there was a large population living on the earth. It shows God's omni- science (all knowing) & anger against sin, but also His grace & patience in seeking to draw all men to repen- tance. - Most of the people followed the godless ways of Cain they thought only of themselves. They refused to ac- knowledge God even though they knew of His existence. They were not interested in knowing or pleasing God. - God saw the unbelieving world & their sin - nothing was: hidden from God. God knows our thoughts & sees every- thing that is done in secret. Not only were the people of Noah's day the descendants of Adam, but all of us too, are descendants of Adam. We were all born sinners - sepa- rated from God. - There was one righteous man (Noah) who always fol- lowed God. God decided to save Noah from the great flood: that He was going to send. God told Noah exactly how to build a boat that would save him, his family and the ani- mals. - God saw that although Noah had sin like all the others, he believed in God, and he wanted to do what God told him to do. God had grace and mercy on Noah & had a plan to rescue him. God did not want Noah to die like he de- served.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, We praise You for You are holy, righteous & You see everything, nothing is hidden from You. You are holy, You hate sin. You will always do what You say. You will always punish sin. In Jesus name! Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Ezekiel 18:32 "For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone," declares The Lord God; so turn and live." Ezekiel 18:32 (God hates sin. But He loves people. He is patient, and desires that all be saved. Those who refuse to believe Him will see His swift and sure judgment, but this is NOT what He wants! Those who come to Him by faith will see His gracious care and salvation. This is what He wants!)


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Do you think the world then was like it is now? How are things the same? How are things different?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Because the people were so evil, sinful, & would not change their minds & come to God, He decided to destroy the whole earth. God told Noah that He was going to send a great flood which would cover the whole earth. God also told Noah to build an ark or a large boat, so that all those who trusted in God could be saved. God told him exactly how to make it. The boat had to be built according to God's plan. When God choses to save us, He always wants us to do exactly what He says


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Genesis 611-22 Focus: Genesis 6.11-17


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Comic strip - with drawing materi- als, let your child/children create a simple comic strip based on the in- structions given to Noah in Genesis 6.14-16. Have each child share their comic strip while retelling the story in the correct order from Genesis 6:11-17 account.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. How do you think did God feel about the evil on the earth? 2.How do you think Noah felt about building an ark or about God send- ing a flood when there was no rain yet? 3.What should we do if no one else around cares about pleasing God. Will God save us if we obey Him? Will God punish us if we disobey Him?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You that You are absolutely holy You do what You say yet You will punish all sin, but will save those who believe in You & come to You in Your way. Help us to always remember this. In Jesus name! Amen.

