---
week: 9
day: 2
title: 'NOAH BUILDS AN ARK'
bible: 'Genesis 6:11-22'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children to learn about God's character - His omni- science (able to know everything)
- Children to understand God's holiness and hatred against sin, His swift & sure judgment; and His gracious care & salvation for all who come to Him by faith.

## 2. Note to Parent
- This lesson spans the time from Cain to Abel to Noah & the flood. By the time of Noah's generation there was a large population living on the earth. It shows God's omni- science (all knowing) & anger against sin, but also His grace & patience in seeking to draw all men to repentance.
- Most of the people followed the godless ways of Cain they thought only of themselves. They refused to acknowledge God even though they knew of His existence. They were not interested in knowing or pleasing God.
- God saw the unbelieving world & their sin - nothing was: hidden from God. God knows our thoughts & sees everything that is done in secret. Not only were the people of Noah's day the descendants of Adam, but all of us too, are descendants of Adam. We were all born sinners separated from God.
- There was one righteous man (Noah) who always followed God. God decided to save Noah from the great flood: that He was going to send. God told Noah exactly how to build a boat that would save him, his family and the animals.
- God saw that although Noah had sin like all the others, he believed in God, and he wanted to do what God told him to do. God had grace and mercy on Noah & had a plan to rescue him. God did not want Noah to die like he deserved.

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, We praise You for You are also a patient God & a God who is merciful & gracious. You provide the only way for anyone to be saved from the flood & Your great anger against sin. In Jesus name! Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Ezekiel 18:32 "For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone," declares The Lord God; so turn and live." Ezekiel 18:32 (God hates sin. But He loves people. He is patient, and desires that all be saved. Those who refuse to believe Him will see His swift and sure judgment, but this is NOT what He wants! Those who come to Him by faith will see His gracious care and salvation. This is what He wants!)

## 5. Story Opening
What is something God has done for you, even though you did not do anything to deserve it?


## 6. Story Background
God was gracious to Noah so he & his family were not going to be destroyed. God saw that although this man had sin like all the others, he believed in God, and he wanted to do what God told him to do. God gave a promise to Noah. He promised to keep Noah and his family alive in the ark. Noah was to bring his wife, and his sons, and their wives, two of each kind of animal, lots of food for the people & animals into the boat with him. God was thinking about everything that they would need

## 7. Bible Story
Read Genesis 6:11-22
Focus: Genesis 6:18-22

## 8. Story Retell
Animal Alphabet - Name as many animals as you can. You can also write it down using a paper and pencil/pen. Try to say or list down an animal for each letter of the alphabet. You can turn this into a contest or work together in the family. This will remind you and your children how God cared for Noah and the animals in the ark.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Why did God decide to save Noah & his family? 2.What else did God tell Noah to bring into the ark? What feelings did you have about God when He asked Noah to bring all these things inside the ark? 3.From what you learned today, what do you feel God might be asking you to do?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You that through our lesson today we have learned of Your kindness to underserving sin- ners like Noah & his family. You pro- vided a way of escape from the pun- ishment they deserve for their sins. Thank you that even today You love us and sent Jesus to die for all our sins on our behalf. In Jesus name! Amen.

