---
week: 10
day: 1
title: 'NOAH: ANIMALS ENTER THE ARK'
bible: 'Genesis 7:5-10'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that Noah loved & obeyed God even if no one else would
- For children to realize God's patience with men & His desire for all to be saved. He made provision for the re- cipients of His grace.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- Last week we learned about God giving Noah instructions on how to build an ark. The ark had to be built according to God's plan. One very important thing to remember about the way God told Noah to build this ark is to put only one door in the side of the ark (Genesis 6:16). There was only one ark in which people could be saved from God's anger & there was only one door to enter the ark.
- God has also given Noah all the instructions he needs to: save himself, his family & the animals. He was preparing them for the really big flood that will come. They did everything in spite of criticism, jeers, and laughter from their neighbors.
 - Noah warned the people of God's coming judgement. The people in Noah's time did not accept God's warnings given through Noah. God waited patiently for 120 years for them to change their minds, but He would not wait any longer, it was time for God to punish them.
- It's not always easy to do the right thing. We live in a world a lot like Noah's world, where people believe they have a right to do as they please (Luke 17:26-27). We need: to be obedient to God no matter what other people think.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, We thank You because You are Sovereign You have power & freedom over nature, animals & people. Help us as we study the Bible. In Jesus name! Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Genesis 7:5 "And Noah did according to all that the Lord commanded him" Genesis 7:5 Noah prepared for his entrance into the ark, and all the animals with him; got everything ready for them, the rooms for their lodging, and food for their nourishment. Faithful Noah obeyed. His obedience is all the more remarkable to us because of the strangeness of the com- mands God gave to him.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is your favorite animal and why?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Noah followed God's instructions to bring his wife, three sons (Ham, Shem & Japheth), and three daughters-in-law into the ark (only 8 people were in the ark). He was also instructed to take on board the ark seven pairs of clean animals (for food & sacrifices) and a pair of animals that are not clean to preserve life on earth. See Lev. 11:1-47 & Deut. 14:4-20


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 7:5-10


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Questions - recall the story by prompting them with questions to remember the details in the correct order.
1. What was Noah's response to God's command? V5
2. How old was Noah when the floodwaters came on the earth? V6
3. Who else did Noah bring into the ark? V7
4. What kind animals Noah had to take on board. How many of each kind? V8
5. They all went into the ark through how many door? V9
6. How many days they were all inside the ark before the rain came? V10
Let each child & or family member retell the story in the correct order.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What can you learn from verse 5 "And Noah did according to all that the Lord commanded him"?
2. If you do right, there will be times you have to be different from others. Why is this important?
3. This week how can you follow God & what He wants you to do? How can doing right when it's hard bring happiness later?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You for the Life of Noah. He listened to You & obeyed You. We need to do the same & listen & obey You. Please tell us the right thing to do, just like Noah we need to obey You. In Jesus name! Amen.

