---
week: 10
day: 2
title: 'NOAH: ANIMALS ENTER THE ARK'
bible: 'Genesis 7:5-10'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that Noah loved & obeyed God even if no one else would
- For children to realize God's patience with men & His desire for all to be saved. He made provision for the re- cipients of His grace.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- Last week we learned about God giving Noah instructions on how to build an ark. The ark had to be built according to God's plan. One very important thing to remember about the way God told Noah to build this ark is to put only one door in the side of the ark (Genesis 6:16). There was only one ark in which people could be saved from God's anger & there was only one door to enter the ark.
- God has also given Noah all the instructions he needs to: save himself, his family & the animals. He was preparing them for the really big flood that will come. They did everything in spite of criticism, jeers, and laughter from their neighbors.
 - Noah warned the people of God's coming judgement. The people in Noah's time did not accept God's warnings given through Noah. God waited patiently for 120 years for them to change their minds, but He would not wait any longer, it was time for God to punish them.
- It's not always easy to do the right thing. We live in a world a lot like Noah's world, where people believe they have a right to do as they please (Luke 17:26-27). We need: to be obedient to God no matter what other people think.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God Thank You for You are faithful. You always keep Your special promise of saving people. Guide us and teach us to also be faithful to You. In Jesus name. Amen!


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Genesis 7:5 "And Noah did according to all that the Lord commanded him" Genesis 7:5 Noah prepared for his entrance into the ark, and all the animals with him; got everything ready for them, the rooms for their lodging, and food for their nourishment. Faithful Noah obeyed. His obedience is all the more remarkable to us because of the strangeness of the commands God gave to him.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Have you prepared for something that has never hap- pened before (a school presentation, evacuation during flood, etc.)? What did you do?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Noah, his family & all the chosen animals all went into the ark. They all entered by the one & only door which God had told Noah to put in the side of the ark. This was the only way anyone could be saved from the flood & God's great anger against sin. Only those who had gone through the doorway would be saved. Everyone outside of the ark died.



{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Genesis 7:5-10


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Ball Animal Round Up - if there are more than 6 family members divide into 2 teams. If there are less than 6 then only one team. Give each family member 2 plastic balls this is their animal to "round up." Have them line up at one end of the room. Show the finish line - this is their "ark". Give the 1st family member in each team a stick. When you say "go" the first family member must put their plastic balls on the floor, hit their balls with the stick & get it past the finish line. Then the family member walks back while retelling a part of the story until he reaches their line & hand the stick off to the next player. The point of the game is to get all of the "animals" onto the "ark" & finish retelling the whole story in the correct order.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. How did those saved from the flood get into the ark? 2.How do you think the people in Noah's day felt about the ark & Noah's warning about the flood? 3.If you had been alive then, what would you have done? Would you have listened to God's Word, and gotten into the ark? Or would you have stayed outside?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You that through our lesson today have learned that by following Your plans we will be saved! Help us to make good decisions that makes You happy. In Jesus name! Amen.

