---
week: 11
day: 1
title: 'NOAH: A COLORFUL PROMISE'
bible: 'Genesis 9:8-15'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children understand that God keeps His promises.-
- Children will see that God is worthy of their trust.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
*God remembered Noah and all those inside the ark - Genesis 8:1-4, 14-17.
- God safely kept Noah and his family and the animals in the ark. God didn't forget Noah and the others in the ark. He said He would save them, and He did. He does what He: says. God never changes; He never forgets. God said He would destroy all outside the ark, and He did.
* God gave His commands and promises to Noah Genesis 9:1-2.
- God gave Noah and his sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, control over the animals, birds, and fish just as He had given it to Adam in the beginning. The world and everything in it belongs to God. But He gave it to man to take care of for Him. God gave the rainbow as His sign Genesis 9:12-15.
- The rainbow was given as God's sign to show that He would never again destroy the earth by a flood. When you see a rainbow, remember that God gave the rainbow as a sign that He will never again destroy the world by a flood.
- Many thousands of years have passed since the flood. God has kept His Word.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, We praise you because you are faithful. We can count on your Word. Help us to know you better, so we can trust you more. As we study about Noah, help us to understand Your Word. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Deuteronomy 7:9 - "Know therefore that the Lord your God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his com- mandments, to a thousand generations."


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is your favorite color? Why?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
After a year of being on the boat, the earth is no longer flooded and God tells Noah that he, his family and the animals can get off the boat. Now listen for the promise that God makes.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
 Read and tell the story to your child. Genesis 8:18-22


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Rope Game that is 2 meters long and tie the ends together. Have the children get in a circle with each one holding on to the rope. Start moving the rope in one direction. When you say "STOP," Get a piece of rope the person closest to the knot has to say the next part of the story. Continue doing this till the story is told.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Who came out of the boat with Noah in the story?
2. What did you like about the story? Is there anything you didn't like?
3. From what you learned today about God (Ex. He keeps His promises) what do you feel God is asking you to do?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, I praise you because You keep your promises. Thank You for the rainbow as it is a sign that You will never destroy the earth again by a worldwide flood. Help me also to keep my promises. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.

