---
week: 11
day: 2
title: 'NOAH: A COLORFUL PROMISE'
bible: 'Genesis 9:8-15'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children understand that God keeps His promises.-
- Children will see that God is worthy of their trust.

## 2. Note to Parent
*God remembered Noah and all those inside the ark - Genesis 8:1-4, 14-17.
- God safely kept Noah and his family and the animals in the ark. God didn't forget Noah and the others in the ark. He said He would save them, and He did. He does what He: says. God never changes; He never forgets. God said He would destroy all outside the ark, and He did.
* God gave His commands and promises to Noah Genesis 9:1-2.
- God gave Noah and his sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, control over the animals, birds, and fish just as He had given it to Adam in the beginning. The world and everything in it belongs to God. But He gave it to man to take care of for Him. God gave the rainbow as His sign Genesis 9:12-15.
- The rainbow was given as God's sign to show that He would never again destroy the earth by a flood. When you see a rainbow, remember that God gave the rainbow as a sign that He will never again destroy the world by a flood.
- Many thousands of years have passed since the flood. God has kept His Word.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, You are in control of everything. You are wise. You don't get confused. You are good. Your plan for us is good because you love us. Help us to stay calm and trust in You at all times. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Deuteronomy 7:9 - "Know therefore that the Lord your God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his com- mandments, to a thousand generations."

## 5. Story Opening
What do you do when you see a rainbow in the sky?

## 6. Story Background
Noah, his family and the animals leave the boat after being on it for a year. Listen for what God shows them next.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story to your child. Genesis 8:18-22

## 8. Story Retell
 Read and tell the story to your child. Genesis 8:18-22 8 Story Retell: Show some pictures (Noah and his sons, animals out of the boat and the rainbow). Following the right sequence of the story (Genesis 9:8-15), and let your child describe what is in the picture.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What did you learn about what God is like in our story?
2. What do you think was going in Noah's heart and mind in this story?
3. Who can you share this story with this week?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, I praise You because you rule over all things. The world and everything in it belongs to You. And yet You know me. You remember me. Thank you for taking good care of me. Help me to take good care of this little part of the world I live in. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.

