---
week: 12
day: 1
title: 'LANGUAGE CONFUSED, PEOPLE SCATTERED'
bible: 'Genesis 11:1-9'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that only God is worthy of worship
- For children to see God's hand in history of calling people back to Him

## 2. Note to Parent
* The rebellious, proud attitude of the people Genesis 11:1-4.
- Many years passed after God saved Noah and his family from the great flood. Once again, many people lived on the: earth. But soon forgot about God's terrible judgment on the earth by the flood.
- They deliberately turned away from God, and their minds became evil and foolish. They made images and worshiped them. They were under Satan's control. Satan was leading our ancestors to rebel against God. The people gathered to build the tower of Babel because they did not want to be scattered over all the earth as God commanded. They wanted to make a name for themselves; instead of praising God's name.
* God saw them and scattered them (Genesis 11:5-9)
- God knew that if they all stayed together, they would quickly forget about God and His will.
- God knew the people's thoughts and plans. No one can keep a secret from God. "The eyes of the LORD are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good" (Proverbs 15:3).
* There were a few people who continued to worship the true and living God, but the majority turned away from God. You may be noticing how what is happening in these true, ancient stories are very similar to what is happening: today -- people are still rebelling against God. God hasn't: changed either. He still judges sin. And He is still calling people to believe in Him.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, You alone is worthy of my praise and worship. You are the only one true living God. You are holy and cannot tolerate sin. Please forgive me for all the wrong things I have done. Help me to do what is pleasing to You. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Luke 1:50-51-50 And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. 51 He has shown strength with his arm; he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. Luke 1:50

## 5. Story Opening
Tell of a time when you built something really big or when you built something with someone else

## 6. Story Background
In Genesis 9:1, after Noah comes out of the boat, God tells him to have more children and to fill the earth, which means to go throughout the world. Listen to what happens when they don't obey.


## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story Genesis 11:1-9
Bring some things that you can use to build something as you are telling the story. It would be best to have things that you can stack on top of one another.


## 8. Story Retell
Ball Game When you say "GO," the family members pass the ball around the circle until you say "STOP." The person who has the ball has to say the next part of the story. When you say "GO," they start passing the ball till you say "STOP." Or, children can toss or roll the ball to anyone they choose to say the next part.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What did you learn about what God is like in the story?
2. What stood out to you in the story?
3. What are things or ways that you can do to show how much you praise and thank God?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, "I worship You, Almighty God. There is none like you." Help me to always put you first in my life. Sorry for the times that I choose to do things that does not please you. Help me to live for You everyday. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.

