---
week: 12
day: 2
title: 'LANGUAGE CONFUSED, PEOPLE SCATTERED'
bible: 'Genesis 11:1-9'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that only God is worthy of worship
- For children to see God's hand in history of calling people back to Him

## 2. Note to Parent
* The rebellious, proud attitude of the people Genesis 11:1-4.
- Many years passed after God saved Noah and his family from the great flood. Once again, many people lived on the: earth. But soon forgot about God's terrible judgment on the earth by the flood.
- They deliberately turned away from God, and their minds became evil and foolish. They made images and worshiped them. They were under Satan's control. Satan was leading our ancestors to rebel against God. The people gathered to build the tower of Babel because they did not want to be scattered over all the earth as God commanded. They wanted to make a name for themselves; instead of praising God's name.
* God saw them and scattered them (Genesis 11:5-9)
- God knew that if they all stayed together, they would quickly forget about God and His will.
- God knew the people's thoughts and plans. No one can keep a secret from God. "The eyes of the LORD are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good" (Proverbs 15:3).
* There were a few people who continued to worship the true and living God, but the majority turned away from God. You may be noticing how what is happening in these true, ancient stories are very similar to what is happening: today -- people are still rebelling against God. God hasn't: changed either. He still judges sin. And He is still calling people to believe in Him.

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, Please heal our land. So many people are turning away from you believing Satan's lies that they can live without You. But we need You more than ever. You alone is our source of everything. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Luke 1:50-51-50 And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. 51 He has shown strength with his arm; he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. Luke 1:50

## 5. Story Opening
Pass the Message. Invite your family to join you. Have them get in a line. Whisper a sentence to the first person in line. They then need to whisper it to the second person and so on till the last person has been whispered to. See how different the sentence is from the first person to the last one.

## 6. Story Background
God knows what is best for us. He wants us to love and obey Him and when we do, we will truly be content. Let's see what happens when the people after Noah decide to do what they want to do.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story Genesis 11:1-9
Bring some things that you can use to build something as you are telling the story. It would be best to have things that you can stack on top of one another.


## 8. Story Retell
Hand Motions Go back through the Bible story and have them come up with different hand motions that would help them remember each part of the story. Keep going back through the story adding more hand motions until the story is retold.

## 9. Story Questions
 1.What choices did the people make? What else could they have done? What happened because of the choices they made? 2. What part of the story did you like? 3.How can you help others know more about God? To who can you share this Bible story to?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You that You are always in control no matter what. Thank You for being good and gracious to us. So many of my friends do not know you personally. Help me to share your love and forgiveness to them. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.

