---
week: 13
day: 1
title: 'ABRAHAM - GOD’S COVENANT'
bible: 'Genesis 17:1-8'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that God is faithful to carry out His: plans and to fulfill His promises.
- For children to understand that we all need to trust and obey God, regardless of what others are doing. For children to see that if we have put our trust in Christ Jesus as Saviour, we are Abraham's descendants, based on the promise of GOD


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
1. The Name Almighty "GOD" is adapted from the Hebrew word "ELOHIM," which comes from a smaller word, "EL" that suggests "the great, mighty, absolute, intense power of GOD." It is by this great name, Almighty GOD, to which GOD made great and mighty promises to Abraham because nothing is too hard for GOD.
2. From last week's lesson, it is important to note and explain to your child that because people scattered, nations were formed. We are now going to learn about the life of Abram and how God worked in his life. (You may trace Abraham's family line in Genesis 11)
3. God changed Abram's name (and even Sarai's) because he would become the father of many descendants: Abram means "exalted father"; Abraham means "father of a multitude (many) of children."


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Our Almighty God, Thank you for the Bible which can study today. Help us to understand and remember Your Word, and give us the grace to worship and obey You always. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
John 1:12-13 - But to all who did receive Him, who be- lieved in His name, He gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God. (ESV)


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
 If you can move or live in another place or country where would it be and why?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
People continue to disobey and not follow after God. God calls out to one man, Abram. God asks him to move away from his home country and He will make a great nation from Abram's family to follow after Him. You will hear us use the word covenant. This is an agreement that God will not change.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Genesis 17:1- 8 with your child.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Rope Game- Get a piece of rope that is 15 feet long and tie the ends together. Have the children get in a circle with each one holding on to the rope. Start moving the rope in one direction. When you say "STOP," the person closest to the knot has to say the next part of the story. Continue doing this till the whole story is told


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What did you learn about God in this story? 2.What were you imagining when the story was being told? How did it make you feel? 3.How will you respond to GOD from this day on, after hearing this story?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Our promise-keeping God, We thank you 0 LORD for Your Word that shows us your FAITHFULNESS and your ALMIGHTY POWER that we can depend on. May what we have learned today bring us closer to You, and lead us to worship You in our daily walk. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


