---
week: 13
day: 2
title: 'ABRAHAM - GOD’S COVENANT'
bible: 'Genesis 17:1-8'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that God is faithful to carry out His: plans and to fulfill His promises.
- For children to understand that we all need to trust and obey God, regardless of what others are doing. For children to see that if we have put our trust in Christ Jesus as Saviour, we are Abraham's descendants, based on the promise of GOD


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
1. The Name Almighty "GOD" is adapted from the Hebrew word "ELOHIM," which comes from a smaller word, "EL" that suggests "the great, mighty, absolute, intense power of GOD." It is by this great name, Almighty GOD, to which GOD made great and mighty promises to Abraham because nothing is too hard for GOD.
2. From last week's lesson, it is important to note and explain to your child that because people scattered, nations were formed. We are now going to learn about the life of Abram and how God worked in his life. (You may trace Abraham's family line in Genesis 11)
3. God changed Abram's name (and even Sarai's) because he would become the father of many descendants: Abram means "exalted father"; Abraham means "father of a multitude (many) of children."


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Our Great and Powerful God, Thank you for this 2nd Day of studying Your Word. We are excited to learn and apply the things that You will teach us through the Bible. Please help us to be the person that You want us to be. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
John 1:12-13 - But to all who did receive Him, who believed in His name, He gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God. (ESV)


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
From our past Bible stories, what did you learn about God?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God has chosen Abraham to make a great nation from him and a son that He will give him. God promises him that he will have more children than the stars in the sky. God makes a great promise to Abraham that He will never break.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Genesis 17:1- 8 with your child.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Act it Out - Ask your child/ children to help act out or dramatize the story as you are retelling it.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Describe how did Abraham respond to the promises God gave. What did he do? 2.What do you think was going on in Abraham's mind as GOD was declaring His promises? 3. God promises us that if we trust in Him, He will be with us forever. How do you feel about this?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Our Almighty God, We praise and worship You! Thank you for we have seen through the story today that indeed You are Faithful! Thank You for Your promise of Salvation through Jesus Christ. Thank you that if we trust and surrender to You, You will never leave us! Help us to also share the this wonderful promise to our friends so that they too may experience this! In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


