---
week: 14
day: 1
title: 'ABRAHAM’S SON ISAAC IS BORN'
bible: 'Genesis 21:2-7'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to understand God's claim on their lives because He owns everyone and everything.
- For children to see that they cannot save themselves, but God saves those who trust Him.
- For children to know that that they can come to God by faith.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
1. Abraham and Sarah were too old to have children: Abraham was 100 years old, and Sarah was 90; Sarah never had a child. She herself knew it was impossible at her age to bear one. That is why in Genesis 18:1 she laughed when God said she would have a child.
2. God is the Almighty GOD - He can do whatever HE wants to do; NOTHING is impossible with HIM.
3. Years have passed since HE promised Abraham a son, but GOD fulfilled HIS Promise! That is who GOD is. God does not change His Mind. HE gave Sarah a son just as HE told Abraham HE would. Abraham and Sarah called their son Isaac.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Our Faithful God, How amazing and awesome You are, indeed! We are joyful today to again read and study Your Word and talk about Your Greatness! Guide us as we study. Lead us to obey and worship You more! In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Psalm 33:4-5 For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. (ESV)


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is something or someone that makes you laugh a lot?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
In previous weeks we have talked about Abraham receiving a promise that he would be the father of a great nation though he did not have any children. He got impatient and had a son with Hagar. But God is faithful and does not forget His promises. Three men visited with Abraham when he was 99 and told him that in one year they would return and Sarah would have a son.

{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Genesis 21:2-7, you may add different tones and drama when reading the Bible Story.

{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
RETELL WHILE DRAWING
1. Simply Prepare a piece/s of bond paper, Colored pens/crayons/pencil in advance.
2. In this Story Retell portion, tell/ explain to your child (or each of your children) that you would like them to draw a picture of what happened in the story as they retell it to you.
3. As they are drawing and repeating the story, it is advisable to ask questions to keep your child on track of the story. Appreciate their drawing no matter what. 4.Talk about your child's drawing after, ask them to point out different parts of the story or tell more about their favorite part. This will somehow help in building comprehension, and also bonding with them
5. For younger kids, you may want to label some parts of his/her drawing as you talk about it together or in your group


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Who were the different characters in the story and describe them: who were they, were they young or old; what makes them special or amazing
2. What do you think may be some of the reasons why people will laugh with Sarah when they see or hear her condition?
3. How will this change the way you pray to GOD now?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Our Amazing God, Thank you for how You encourage us through this wonderful story from Your WORD! We believe this story, together with the other stories we have talked about, and even the ones we will still go through are Faithful and True because the Author is You! In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

