---
week: 14
day: 2
title: 'ABRAHAM’S SON ISAAC IS BORN'
bible: 'Genesis 21:2-7'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to understand God's claim on their lives because He owns everyone and everything.
- For children to see that they cannot save themselves, but God saves those who trust Him.
- For children to know that that they can come to God by faith.

## 2. Note to Parent
1. Abraham and Sarah were too old to have children: Abraham was 100 years old, and Sarah was 90; Sarah never had a child. She herself knew it was impossible at her age to bear one. That is why in Genesis 18:1 she laughed when God said she would have a child.
2. God is the Almighty GOD - He can do whatever HE wants to do; NOTHING is impossible with HIM.
3. Years have passed since HE promised Abraham a son, but GOD fulfilled HIS Promise! That is who GOD is. God does not change His Mind. HE gave Sarah a son just as HE told Abraham HE would. Abraham and Sarah called their son Isaac.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Our Almighty God, Thank You that You hear us and know us. Guide us and teach us through our Bible story today. We praise You for we can trust in You always. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 33:4-5 For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. (ESV)

## 5. Story Opening
Have you ever held a new born baby? What was that like?

## 6. Story Background
When the three men came to visit with Abraham and Sarah to let them know that she would have a baby, Sarah laughed. The Lord said: "Is anything too hard for the Lord?"

## 7. Bible Story
Read Genesis 21:2-7, you may add different tones and drama when reading the Bible Story.

## 8. Story Retell
RETELL USING DIY STORY BRACELET
1. You will need a string or plastic lacing, and 6 pcs of stringing beads (colors should be red, orange, yellow, green, blue and purple)
2. Measure the string according to your child or children's writs. String the beads so that the colors are arranged in this order. red, orange, yellow, green, blue and purple
3. Tie the ends of the string into a knot and make it ready for the retelling part of your Bible story time.
4. Upon placing it to your child's wrist, tell him/her that he/she will slide one bead over at a time beginning with red to help retell the story he/she just listened to.
5. But first, with your help, model how he/she should retell using the beands; you tell the story again, With the Red bead - open story by stating who are the characters involved. Then for the Orange bead - describe the setting of the story, or where it took place. Then for the Yellow bead - then tell the problem or issue, or the drama in the story.Green- then give few more details.Blue- then explain how the problem was solved...Purple- end by shar- what is your favorite part of the story.
6. After this let your child try a retelling with your assistance. With a little more practice, let him tell the story his/her own.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What might GOD have been teaching or showing Abraham and Sarai in ful- filling His promise of a child? 2.Why do you think God placed this amazing story in the Bible? What do you think is His personal message to you? 3.With the story today, what does it tell you about God's promise of eternal life through Jesus? Have you trusted Him already? Do you want to put your full trust in HIM?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Oh LORD God, Your Word is Truth! Thank You that You care about us and that You answer our prayers. Thank you for your salvation through the LORD Jesus Christ. May we indeed be changed day by day and be more like Jesus as we continue loving and obey- ing your Word. In Jesus Name we pray, Amen.

