---
week: 15
day: 1
title: 'ABRAHAM SENDS AWAY HAGAR AND ISHMAEL'
bible: 'Genesis 21:14-20'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will learn that God knows everything about us.
- Children will know that God always hears our prayers.
- Children will understand that God is the one who provides for our needs.

## 2. Note to Parent
- Before Isaac was born, Sarah took matter into her own hands when she was not yet able to have a child. This resulted in Abraham having a son, Ishmael, with Sarah's maid Hagar (Genesis 16). This shows how Sarah did not trust God and this resulted great distress or restlessness to Abraham (Genesis 21:11).
- Abraham loved Ishamel too and was deeply worried and sad for having to send away his son. Although it troubled him to send them away the Lord made it clear in Genesis 21:12-13 that He will also make a nation through his son. Abraham obeyed God right away.
- The Lord heard Ishmael's cries (Genesis 21:17-18). He was true to His promise and did not neglect Ishmael and Hagar. We see that God hears our cries and sees our pain. He also answers prayers according to His plans.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for another week that we can read and study Your Word in the Bible. Guide us as we continue to learn more about the Abraham and his family. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 139:1-3 (ESV) - 10 Lord, you have searched me and known me! 2 You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from afar. 3 You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Psalm 139:1

## 5. Story Opening
Share a time when you were really thirsty or hungry.

## 6. Story Background
Abraham and his wife, Sarah, have waited many years to have the child that God has promised. They got impatient and so Abraham had a son with Sarah's maid, Hagar. They named him Ishmael. Thirteen years later, Abraham and Sarah, when they are over 90 years old, finally have the promised son and name him Isaac. Hagar and Ishmael are making fun of Isaac which upsets Sarah and she has Abraham throw them out into the wilderness.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story from Genesis 21:14-20. Make sure to explain the Story Background before reading from the Bible.

## 8. Story Retell
 Partners - You and your child or if you have other children are get into smaller groups of two. Each person will take a turn retelling the story. If someone gets stuck and can't remember the next part, you or their partner can help them out.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Who were the different characters or group of characters in the story?
2. What were you imagining as the story was being told? How did it make you feel?
3. From what you learned today, what do you feel God might be saying to you?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank you for today's story and the assurance that You know ev- erything about us. Thank You for always listening to our prayers. Help us to trust in You each and every day. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

