---
week: 15
day: 2
title: 'ABRAHAM SENDS AWAY HAGAR AND ISHMAEL'
bible: 'Genesis 21:14-20'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will learn that God knows everything about us.
- Children will know that God always hears our prayers.
- Children will understand that God is the one who provides for our needs.

## 2. Note to Parent
- Before Isaac was born, Sarah took matter into her own hands when she was not yet able to have a child. This resulted in Abraham having a son, Ishmael, with Sarah's maid Hagar (Genesis 16). This shows how Sarah did not trust God and this resulted great distress or restlessness to Abraham (Genesis 21:11).
- Abraham loved Ishamel too and was deeply worried and sad for having to send away his son. Although it troubled him to send them away the Lord made it clear in Genesis 21:12-13 that He will also make a nation through his son. Abraham obeyed God right away.
- The Lord heard Ishmael's cries (Genesis 21:17-18). He was true to His promise and did not neglect Ishmael and Hagar. We see that God hears our cries and sees our pain. He also answers prayers according to His plans.

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, Thank You for always listening to our prayers. Thank You for being there for us in every situation of our life. Help us to fully understand Your Word. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.
## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 139:1-3 (ESV) - 10 Lord, you have searched me and known me! 2 You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from afar. 3 You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Psalm 139:1

## 5. Story Opening
Share a time when you were sad.

## 6. Story Background
Sarah has finally had her long awaited, promised son, Isaac. But she discovers that Hagar and Hagar's son, Ishmael, are making fun of Isaac. Sarah gets very upset and has Abraham throw Hagar and Ishmael out of the house and into the wilderness. Abraham is upset but God said it was okay and that he would make a great nation from Ishmael and the families after him. Living God's Story Lesson 5

## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story from Genesis 21:14-20. Make sure to explain the Story Background before reading from the Bible.

## 8. Story Retell
 Count to Fifty - Slowly count to 50 and see if your child can retell the story before you hit the number 50 (or another number that works for the story). If your child is having a hard time remembering some parts of the story, you may read or explain the story again.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How does God respond to Hagar and Ishmael in the story? What does this teach us?
2. How did this story challenge you or encourage you?
3. From what you learned today, what do you feel God might be asking you to do?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for the lessons we from Hagar and Ishmael's lives. Thank You for always listening to our prayers and providing for our daily needs. May we continue to trust in You no matter what happens. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.
