---
week: 16
day: 1
title: 'ABRAHAM GIVES UP ISAAC'
bible: 'Genesis 22:1-18'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will understand God's claim on their lives because He owns everything and everyone
- Children to learn that they cannot save themselves, but God saves those who trust in Him.
- Children to realize that God is supremely faithful and He always keeps His promises and that they can come to God by faith.

## 2. Note to Parent
* God commanded Abraham to offer up Isaac (Genesis 22:1-2)
- Many years passed by, and Isaac grew to be a young man. His father and mother loved him. Abraham believed that all of God's promises concerning the coming Deliver-E er were to be fulfilled through Isaac and his descendants.
- God was testing Abraham to see if he loved Isaac more than he loved God. This shows God's authority over all people and all things. God gives life to every person and every living thing. God created everything. Good provided a ram to take Isaac's place (Genesis 22:10-12)
- Isaac couldn't be saved, however unless there was another suitable sacrifice to offer to God. Abraham and Isaac didn't have a suitable sacrifice with them but God provided another offering instead of Isaac.
- God graciously provided a ram, a male sheep, instead of= Isaac (Genesis 22:13) And God causes the ram to be caught by its horns in the bush. Abraham took Isaac off the altar and put the ram which God had provided on the altar, so it could be sacrificed instead of Isaac. The ram died instead of Isaac.
- Abraham trusted God to send the Deliverer (Genesis 22:14-19)
- Abraham believed that God would also provide the Deliverer to rescue mankind from the power of Satan and from the punishment of sin. God keeps His promises.

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, Thank You for another week that we can read and study Your Word, the Bible. Thank You that You see and know us. Guide us as we continue to learn more about the life of Abraham and his son, Isaac. In Jesus name we pray, Amen

## 4. Memory Verse:
 James 1:12 (ÉSV) 12 Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. James 1:12a

## 5. Story Opening
What is something that you would not want to give away? A favorite toy? A favorite shirt?

## 6. Story Background
Abraham loves his son, Isaac. He is the one promised by God to make a great nation. God asks Abraham to take Isaac and offer him as a sacrifice to the Lord. A sacrifice is when you give up something special to you for something that is more important. Abraham got everything ready: wood, knife, and fire. They travelled three days to get to the place God told him to go. Isaac looked around and asked where the lamb was that is normally given for the sacrifice. Abraham told Isaac that God would provide it.
## 7. Bible Story
 Genesis 22:1-18

## 8. Story Retell
Hand Motions Go back through the Bible story and come up with different hand motions with your child/children that tells the story. Example walking - like the journey of Abraham or lying down like Isaac lying down on the altar. Keep going back through the story adding more hand motions until the story is retold.

## 9. Story Questions
 1. What was Abraham sacrificing in order to follow God?
2. What do you think was going on Abraham's heart and mind in the story?
3. Like Abraham, is there something specific you might obey this week that God is telling you to do?

## 10. Closing Prayer
 Dear God, Thank You for helping us un- derstand our lesson for today. Thank you for the life and example of Abra- ham. May we have the same faith as him. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

