---
week: 16
day: 2
title: 'ABRAHAM GIVES UP ISAAC'
bible: 'Genesis 22:1-18'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will understand God's claim on their lives because He owns everything and everyone
- Children to learn that they cannot save themselves, but God saves those who trust in Him.
- Children to realize that God is supremely faithful and He always keeps His promises and that they can come to God by faith.

## 2. Note to Parent
* God commanded Abraham to offer up Isaac (Genesis 22:1-2)
- Many years passed by, and Isaac grew to be a young man. His father and mother loved him. Abraham believed that all of God's promises concerning the coming Deliver-E er were to be fulfilled through Isaac and his descendants.
- God was testing Abraham to see if he loved Isaac more than he loved God. This shows God's authority over all people and all things. God gives life to every person and every living thing. God created everything. Good provided a ram to take Isaac's place (Genesis 22:10-12)
- Isaac couldn't be saved, however unless there was another suitable sacrifice to offer to God. Abraham and Isaac didn't have a suitable sacrifice with them but God provided another offering instead of Isaac.
- God graciously provided a ram, a male sheep, instead of= Isaac (Genesis 22:13) And God causes the ram to be caught by its horns in the bush. Abraham took Isaac off the altar and put the ram which God had provided on the altar, so it could be sacrificed instead of Isaac. The ram died instead of Isaac.
- Abraham trusted God to send the Deliverer (Genesis 22:14-19)
- Abraham believed that God would also provide the Deliverer to rescue mankind from the power of Satan and from the punishment of sin. God keeps His promises.

## 3. Opening Prayer

 Dear God, We praise and thank you for the lives of Abraham and Isaac that teach us about Your faithfulness. Help us to not only remember the things that we learned, but to also apply it in our daily lives. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
 James 1:12 (ÉSV) 12 Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. James 1:12a

## 5. Story Opening
Share a time when you were surprised by something you found.

## 6. Story Background
God tests Abraham's faith and asks him to give Isaac back to the Lord. Abraham does what the Lord asks and though a sacrifice means the person needs to die, Abraham is confident and tells his servants that they are going to worship the Lord and they will be back. He tells Isaac that although they don't have a lamb, God will provide it.

## 7. Bible Story
 Genesis 22:1-18

## 8. Story Retell
- Give each child a sheet of paper. Have them fold it in half, then fold that half again and then a third time. When you open the paper, there should be 8 boxes on the paper. For each scene or action in the Bible story, have each child draw a simple picture or object in each box in the order that it happens in the story. Let your child/children retell the story to by using their comic strips.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What might God have been teaching or showing Abraham in the story? 2.What do you think is the most import- ant part of the story? 3.Because of what you've learned today, would you like to trust in Christ as your Savior?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for loving us. Thank You for your faithfulness and grace. Thank You for giving us a prom- ised Deliverer. May we know more about Jesus and His love as we memo- rize and study Your Word. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

