---
week: 17
day: 1
title: 'ISAAC HAS TWINS , JACOB AND ESAU'
bible: 'Genesis 25:19-34'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children will know about two of Abraham's grandsons Esau, a man who did not value God's promises, and Jacob, a man who valued God's promises. One of them did: not receive what he hoped for because he did not make a very good, wise choice.
- Children will understand that God's sovereign choice was already planned before the twins were born or when they had done anything good or bad
- Children will realize that there are consequences to choices that they make & even the smallest decision can be very important


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- In previous lessons we heard, Isaac was a young man. God spared his life by providing a ram to die in Isaac's place. God had promised Abraham that through Isaac would come many descendants, including the Deliverer or Savior
- Now Isaac was all grown up. Abraham found a wife for Isaac, whose name was Rebekah and was born in the land where Abraham had lived before God led him to Canaan. Rebekah was unable to have children, but Isaac prayed to God, and asked God for a child, and God answered. They waited twenty years, finally, God made it possible for Rebekah to become pregnant with twins.
- Even while pregnant with twin boys, Rebekah could feel them fighting within her womb. She asked God about this. God answered her, and told her that in her womb, were two babies. These two would grow up to be two different nations. One of those nations will be stronger than the other. The older child will serve the younger one.
- In Bible times, rights of inheritance (birthright) usually gave the older son the family leadership, any special privileges, and a greater (double) portion of the father's accumylated wealth.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Please help us as we read and study the lives of Esau & Jacob. Help us see that You work in surprising & mysterious ways. In Jesus name, Amen!


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}

 Proverbs 5:21"For a man's ways are before the eyes of the Lord, and He ponders all his paths." Proverbs 5:21 God sees everywhere man goes and everything he does, all the time. He not only sees what man does, but He knows why he does the things he does. We cannot think or do anything in secret from Him. God thinks about, and judges everything that He sees.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
 Do you know any twins? Are twins really alike? What are their similarities & differences?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Adam and Eve had a family and their children had families who had families who had... I think you get the idea. Last time we read about Abraham and Sarah having a son named Isaac. Isaac got married to Rebecca and they had twin boys whom they named Jacob and Esau. Esau was the oldest son and the custom during those days was that the oldest son would inherit just about everything when the father passed away. Things may turn out differently for this family!


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Genesis 25:19-34 and focus on verses 19 to 28. This will allow your child to better understand and remem- ber the story.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
 Match the Brothers.
Write attributes (hairy, youngest, hunter, mother's favorite, etc.) of each of the brothers on small pieces of paper. Hand these papers out to the children or family members. Draw two figures/people on paper. Write "Esau" above one and "Jacob" above the other. Ask children to take turns coming up (in the correct order as written in the Bible) and writing the attributes on the correct figure (or pinning them on the board with a tape or thumbtacks).


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. How were Esau & Jacob different? 2. Which character in today's story do you most relate to? 3.How can you help in your home, with you parent, other siblings, or other family members?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, We may be different from one another, but please help us to love and help our family members. Thank you for giving me a family to belong to. In Jesus name, Amen!

