---
week: 17
day: 2
title: 'ISAAC HAS TWINS , JACOB AND ESAU'
bible: 'Genesis 25:19-34'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will know about two of Abraham's grandsons Esau, a man who did not value God's promises, and Jacob, a man who valued God's promises. One of them did: not receive what he hoped for because he did not make a very good, wise choice.
- Children will understand that God's sovereign choice was already planned before the twins were born or when they had done anything good or bad
- Children will realize that there are consequences to choices that they make & even the smallest decision can be very important

## 2. Note to Parent
- In previous lessons we heard, Isaac was a young man. God spared his life by providing a ram to die in Isaac's place. God had promised Abraham that through Isaac would come many descendants, including the Deliverer or Savior
- Now Isaac was all grown up. Abraham found a wife for Isaac, whose name was Rebekah and was born in the land where Abraham had lived before God led him to Canaan. Rebekah was unable to have children, but Isaac prayed to God, and asked God for a child, and God answered. They waited twenty years, finally, God made it possible for Rebekah to become pregnant with twins.
- Even while pregnant with twin boys, Rebekah could feel them fighting within her womb. She asked God about this. God answered her, and told her that in her womb, were two babies. These two would grow up to be two different nations. One of those nations will be stronger than the other. The older child will serve the younger one.
- In Bible times, rights of inheritance (birthright) usually gave the older son the family leadership, any special privileges, and a greater (double) portion of the father's accumylated wealth.

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, Please help us to value your blessings or promises to us and not treat them as worthless. Help us to make wise decisions. In Jesus name. Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:

 Proverbs 5:21"For a man's ways are before the eyes of the Lord, and He ponders all his paths." Proverbs 5:21 God sees everywhere man goes and everything he does, all the time. He not only sees what man does, but He knows why he does the things he does. We cannot think or do anything in secret from Him. God thinks about, and judges everything that He sees.

## 5. Story Opening
What is something special about your family?

## 6. Story Background
Esau had a special privilege to be the first-born son. He should have inherit- ed the responsibilities and blessings that come with being the oldest son but he rashly sold his birthright to his younger brother for a pot of stew. This incident shows that Esau did not value his birthright or appreciate the impor- tance of this blessing and that Jacob valued it more cleverly overtook his brother & gained the birthright.

## 7. Bible Story
Read Genesis 25:19-34 and focus on verses 29 to 34. Connect the passage from last time as the continuation to the story.

## 8. Story Retell
Act it Out: Split the children or family members into pairs: In each pair, one is Esau and the other one is Jacob. Have each pair act out their part and tell the story in the correct order of Genesis 25:29-34. When each pair have finished taking turns in telling the story, switch places (Esau becomes Jacob and Jacob becomes Esau), act out & tell the story again in the correct order.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What choices did Esau & Jacob make?
2. In what ways are you like Esau? In what ways are you like Jacob? What might you do differently?
3. What choices can you make that can affect you & others in the future?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Please help us to consider what is more important to You than getting what we want or our own way. Thank You that You give us wisdom when we make choices. In Jesus name, Amen!

