---
week: 18
day: 1
title: 'JACOB TRICKS HIS FATHER, ISAAC'
bible: 'Genesis 27:18-27'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will see the ways in which God, in His sover- eignty, uses all kinds of actions (good, bad, & mixed) to bring His people to the place in which they find them- selves.
- Children will learn from an example of a family attempting to carry out their responsibilities without love & faith; this causes problems and hurts.
- Children will know that deception is wrong and leads hurt and anger.

## 2. Note to Parent
- Jacob wanted to inherit the promises which his father, Isaac, had inherited from Abraham, so he tricked him into giving him the blessing.
- Jacob did not change God's choice for the blessing. Jacob was always His choice (Genesis 25:23). However, Jacob sinned when he deceived his father, Isaac, into giving him the blessing.
- Jacob's way caused his brother, Esau, to hate him, and he had to leave his home and family. Again, we see how man's sin often brings sorrow not only to themselves, but: to those around them as well.
## 3. Opening prayer:
 Dear God, Thank You that through the story today we can learn that when we do not tell the truth our lies will make lots of trouble for everyone in our family. Thank You that You are truth and we can trust in You. In Jesus name, Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
Zechariah 8:16a "These are the things that you shall do: Speak the truth to one another... Zechariah 8:16a God wants us to speak the truth. Telling the truth is one way to show love to our families & to make them happy.

## 5. Story Opening
Has anyone ever lied to you or tricked you? How did that make you feel?

## 6. Story Background
Who remembers the names of the two brothers we talked about in our last story? How did Jacob get the inheritance that was supposed to go to Esau? Another thing the oldest son would receive from his father was a special blessing. So Esau should get these blessings from Isaac. Now you need to know that Isaac is now a blind old man and though Jacob and Esau are twins, they looked very different. Esau was very hairy and Jacob was not.

## 7. Bible Story
Using the Bible, read Genesis 27:18-27a and focus Genesis 27:18-22. You may use props around the house to make your story time exciting.

## 8. Story Retell
Jacob Tricks Isaac blindfold one family member (blind Isaac) & make him/her sit in a chair while others take turns disguising their voice and saying, "I am Esau." If the blindfolded family member guesses correctly, the identi- fied person tells the first part of the story & trade places with "Isaac" he/she then becomes the new guess- ing "Isaac." Play continues until the story is told.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Why do you think Rebekah thought the blessing should belong to Jacob? (Genesis 25:23)
2. What feelings do you think motivated Rebekah to do what she did?
3. lf you were Rebekah/Jacob what might you do different?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for our Bible story today. Please help us to always speak the truth to each other because telling lies, being dishonest cause trouble for ourselves or problems in our family. In Jesus name, Amen!

