---
week: 18
day: 2
title: 'JACOB TRICKS HIS FATHER, ISAAC'
bible: 'Genesis 27:18-27'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children will see the ways in which God, in His sover- eignty, uses all kinds of actions (good, bad, & mixed) to bring His people to the place in which they find them- selves.
- Children will learn from an example of a family attempting to carry out their responsibilities without love & faith; this causes problems and hurts.
- Children will know that deception is wrong and leads hurt and anger.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- Jacob wanted to inherit the promises which his father, Isaac, had inherited from Abraham, so he tricked him into giving him the blessing.
- Jacob did not change God's choice for the blessing. Jacob was always His choice (Genesis 25:23). However, Jacob sinned when he deceived his father, Isaac, into giving him the blessing.
- Jacob's way caused his brother, Esau, to hate him, and he had to leave his home and family. Again, we see how man's sin often brings sorrow not only to themselves, but: to those around them as well.

{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Thank You for the Bible that teaches us that telling the truth helps the people in our families to be happy. Help us to always love and care for our family that You have blessed us with. In Jesus name, Amen!



{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
 Zechariah 8:16a "These are the things that you shall do: Speak the truth to one another . Zechariah 8:16a God wants us to speak the truth. Telling the truth is one way to show love to our families & to make them happy.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Have you ever played a trick on someone in your family? What was it? How did it make them feel?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Isaac is very old and he could not see very well. He is about to die and he wants to give his blessing to his oldest son, Esau. Rebecca, Isaac's wife and mom to Esau and Jacob, wants Jacob to receive the blessing. Remem- ber that Esau was really hairy and Jacob was not. So Re- becca had Jacob put goat hair on his arm to trick Isaac into believing that Jacob was really Esau.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Using the Bible, read Genesis 27:18-27a and focus on Genesis 27:23-27a. You may use props around the house to make your story time exciting. Remember to connect from where you left off.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Jacob Tricks Isaac blindfold one family member (blind Isaac) & make him/her sit in a chair while others take turns holding out one hand. The blind- folded person has to guess which person it is by feeling their hand. If the blindfolded person guesses correctly, the identified person tells the first part of the story & trade places with "Isaac" - he/she then becomes the new guessing "Isaac." Continue doing this till the story is told.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What is deceit? Give some examples
2. If you were Jacob would you do the same? What would you do differently?
3. When is it hard to tell the truth? Why is it always better to tell the truth? Who will help us tell the truth?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, We praise You because You are all knowing. We pray that You'll help us not to cheat or lie to anyone to get our own way. Instead, help us to show Your truth and love to everyone. In Jesus name. Amen!


