---
week: 19
day: 1
title: 'JOSEPH’S DREAMS AND COLORFUL COAT'
bible: 'Genesis 37:1-8'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that God knows the future of man
- For children to learn that envy, anger, and hatred goes along together and will lead to even more hatred.
- For children to see that envy and hatred is not of GOD. This tendency to be envious and be full of hatred is a result of the sinful nature we all have inherited from Adam.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
 1. From our last lesson we read about Jacob as a young man. In today's Bible story, Jacob is now older and has 12 sons. His favorite is Joseph, this made his brother jealous: and angry at him.
2. Each of us is born separated from GOD, sinners, with a heart that is selfish, envious, hateful, and other evil things. This is our nature which we inherited from our father, Adam
3. God knew exactly what was going to happen to Joseph's: family. Joseph could not see his future. He didn't know how his dreams would be fulfilled. It was GOD who placed those dreams in his mind. Only GOD can see the future.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Our Great God and Father, We commit to You our hearts and minds as we listen to Your Word and discuss it. Lord, may what we learn today change us in the way we think and act, trusting that in all things You are working for Your glory and honor. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Genesis 37:3-4- Now Israel loved Joseph more than any other of his sons, because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a robe of many colors. But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him and could not speak peacefully to him.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Describe a special gift that someone in your family gave you.


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Many years have passed since our last story of Cain kill- ing Ábel. God continually watches over His people though they don't always follow Him. Eventually, a man named Jacob has twelve sons. He particularly favors one son whose name is Joseph. God gave Joseph dreams with a special meaning. God has a reason for allowing us to have dreams. Many times, He speaks to us through them.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Genesis 37:1-8, You may act it out or add a prop like a coat to make it more fun and meaningful for your child.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
RETELL USING YOUR FIVE FINGERS
1. Tell your child that you will make use of the five fingers of your hands in retelling todays story. It will be helpful if you the story teller could first model what you are expecting your child to do in repeating the story.
2. Starting with a closed fist, first pop out the THUMB to open the story, stating who the characters are; then followed by the INDEX FINGER describing the setting of the story, then the MIDDLE FINGER to tell about the main problem/issue in the story, the RING FINGER will be about what really happened over-all from start to finish; then the SMALL FINGER for the result or consequence of the issue in the story.
3. After doing the demonstration, let your child try retelling the story by himself with your assistance. Then with a lttle more practice, let him tell the story using the fingers of his hand, by himself.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What made Joseph special to Israel among his brothers
2. What were you thinking and feeling about yourself as the emotions of the brothers of Joseph was described in the story?
3. What are 3 things that you believe GOD wants to change in you through this story? How will you respond?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Oh LORD God, Thank You for teaching us today. Have mercy on us, and forgive us, LORD, for being like Joseph's brothers many times with hearts that are envious, and full of hatred to people. May we learn to appreciate others, and realize that you are in control and are working in the lives of people for Your glory. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

