---
week: 19
day: 2
title: 'JOSEPH’S DREAMS AND COLORFUL COAT'
bible: 'Genesis 37:1-8'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that God knows the future of man
- For children to learn that envy, anger, and hatred goes along together and will lead to even more hatred.
- For children to see that envy and hatred is not of GOD. This tendency to be envious and be full of hatred is a result of the sinful nature we all have inherited from Adam.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
 1. From our last lesson we read about Jacob as a young man. In today's Bible story, Jacob is now older and has 12 sons. His favorite is Joseph, this made his brother jealous: and angry at him.
2. Each of us is born separated from GOD, sinners, with a heart that is selfish, envious, hateful, and other evil things. This is our nature which we inherited from our father, Adam
3. God knew exactly what was going to happen to Joseph's: family. Joseph could not see his future. He didn't know how his dreams would be fulfilled. It was GOD who placed those dreams in his mind. Only GOD can see the future.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Our Great God and Father, Thank you for another time to meet and study Your Word together as a family. May You work in is continually as we go deeper in studying Your truths so that in everything we say and do, we give You glory and honor. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Genesis 37:3-4- Now Israel loved Joseph more than any other of his sons, because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a robe of many colors. But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him and could not speak peacefully to him.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What kind of dreams do you have? Do you remember them?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
When this Bible story takes place, it is an honor to receive a special coat from the father. Most of the time, it is given to the oldest son because he has a special place in the family.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Genesis 37:1-8, You may act it out or add a prop like a coat to make it more fun and meaningful for your child.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
 Design your own coat Allow your child to draw or design a coat of many colors. You may use a paper, pens, pencil, marker, crayons to draw and decorate the coat. -Your child may also opt to create a collage using materials at home. You may use old magazines, cut-out, stickers, etc. to stick to the coat.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What were the possible reasons why Josephs brothers hated him? What emotions did they have? what happened as a result of these emotions?
2. What were you thinking and feeling about Joseph as he went around telling his dreams, perhaps unaware of his brothers ill-feeling against him?
3. What is God teaching you now concerning your emotions towards others around you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Oh LORD God, We praise and thank You for how you are teaching and molding us through these stories from Your Word. May we respond according to Your will. May we always remember that as followers of Jesus with new hearts, we should choose to do what is right and pleasing to You. In Jesus Name we pray, Amen.


