---
week: 20
day: 1
title: 'JOSEPH SOLD INTO SLAVERY'
bible: 'Genesis 37:18-28'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that bitterness or hatred towards may lead us into doing horrible things, such as hurting them or causing them pain - For children to realize that GOD will protect those who are His -who are called according to His purpose - For the children to see that no one cannot stop GOD from accomplishing HIS plan; that in all of what hap- pened, God designed it all for good, for His purpose


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
1. In sitting down to eat bread the brothers of Joseph displayed their heartlessness to what they have done to him; there is no sign of guilt, no fear of GOD. Their hatred has covered their senses. Jealousy that is unchecked leads to serious sins as what is seen with the brothers of Joseph.
2. The Medianites or Ishmaelites were descendants of Abraham who were traders.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
 Our Great God and Father, We praise You for Your Word which allows us to learn today. Help us to understand and learn about the consequences of hating our brothers. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
James 1:2-3b - Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. James 1:3b


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
When has someone been kind to you? What did that person do?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Because of his dream and the special treatment he was given, Joseph was hated by his brothers. 0ne day, Jacob sends Joseph to see if his brothers are okay because they have gone far to shepherd the sheep.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Genesis 37:18 28 with your child. To make your reading time interesting, use your voice to tell the story by changing voices.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
 COUNT-ACT-AND TELL
1. Assign numbers to each part of the story; show a simple, uncomplicated, easy to remember and modify, action that generally tells what happened in that part. Example: In verse 18, "saw him from afar" would be placing hands over brows while standing and gazing; and "to kill him" would be as if holding a knife and doing a stabbing action; One should say the number first, then do the action while saying the words, as, "ONE. they saw him from afar, and planned to kill him. TWO." Do this for the 10 verses
2. lt would be great if you would sample this by using this very thing in telling the story. Remember you should
3. review the story with your child/children by acting it again with them
4. Give them each a chance to retell the story using it; you may help them as they progress to encourage them


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What do you think are the attitudes and behaviour of the brothers of Joseph before, during, and after what they did to him?
2. After hearing the Bible story, how might this change your view of envying or having bad feelings against others?
3. Because of today's story how can you be of help or a blessing to others around you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
 Dear God, We give You thanks for making us think and realize so many things about ourselves - how we see and respond to people around. Forgive us for being envious of others. Teach us to be content and joyful with what You are giving each of us. Teach us to be joyful that we have You as our GOD and Father. In Jesus name we pray, Amen

