---
week: 20
day: 2
title: 'JOSEPH SOLD INTO SLAVERY'
bible: 'Genesis 37:18-28'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to learn that bitterness or hatred towards may lead us into doing horrible things, such as hurting them or causing them pain - For children to realize that GOD will protect those who are His -who are called according to His purpose - For the children to see that no one cannot stop GOD from accomplishing HIS plan; that in all of what hap- pened, God designed it all for good, for His purpose

## 2. Note to Parent
1. In sitting down to eat bread the brothers of Joseph displayed their heartlessness to what they have done to him; there is no sign of guilt, no fear of GOD. Their hatred has covered their senses. Jealousy that is unchecked leads to serious sins as what is seen with the brothers of Joseph.
2. The Medianites or Ishmaelites were descendants of Abraham who were traders.

## 3. Opening prayer:
Our Great God and Father, Thank you for being our LORD who supplies our needs, who sustains us, and protects us. Bless our hearts today as we see your amazing work of saving us from life and death. Thank you for being our GOD whom we can always trust. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
James 1:2-3b - Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. James 1:3b

## 5. Story Opening
Have you ever been mean to someone or played a trick on them? What did you do?

## 6. Story Background
 The relationship Joseph has with his brothers does not get any better. He is still hated because of the special treatment he is given by his father and the dreams that he has. Hatred can cause people to do very harmful things. How is God going to work through this difficult situation?

## 7. Bible Story
Read Genesis 37:18 28 with your child. To make your reading time interesting, use your voice to tell the story by changing voices.

## 8. Story Retell
Rope Game Get a piece of rope that is 15 feet long and tie the ends together. Have the children get in a circle with each one holding on to the rope. Start moving the rope in one direction. When you say "STOP," the person closest to the knot has to say the next part of the story. Continue doing this till the whole story is told.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What choices did the people make? What else could they have done? What happened because of the choices they made?
2. What do you think was going on in Joseph's heart and mind in the Bible story?
3. What is something you will praise GOD for, and ask GOD for, in your prayers, after hearing this story?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You, Father, for com- forting us that you are our LORD GOD who supplies our need, who protects us, and who saves us from evil and danger. Thank You for Your faithfulness. Thank You for Your Great salvation in Christ Jesus who has sealed us to be yours forever. In Jesus Name we pray, Amen.


