---
week: 21
day: 1
title: 'JOSEPH RULERS IN EGYPT'
bible: 'Genesis 41:37-44'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- Children will understand that God uses difficult experiences to prepare us for His bigger plan for our lives.
- Children will know that God fulfills His promises.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
* From last week's lesson, a lot of events has happened to Joseph. He was sold as a slave and had to work for Potiphar, but while working there he was accused of a crime: he did not do. Yet in prison, the Lord was with Joseph (Genesis 39).
* Even though Joseph had been through difficult experiences, the Lord was still in control.
- The Lord had not forgotten Joseph.
- The dreams which God had given him as young man were about to be fulfilled.
- God always does what He plans.
* When it was time for God to do what He planned, He brought Joseph out of prison and gave him a high position, just as He had shown Joseph through his dreams when he was younger


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Thank You that through the life of Joseph we can see Your faithfulness. Guide us as we continue to learn more about the life of Joseph. Help us understand what You would want us to know.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
James 4:6b-8a (ESV) 6B Therefore it the proud but gives grace to the humble." 7 Submit your- selves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. 8 Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. James 4:6c-7a


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
 Tell of a time when something seemed to be going really badly but it ended up turning out well.


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Many bad things happen to Joseph after he is sold as a slave. He is blamed for something he did not do and is thrown into prison for many years. The king has some dreams which disturb him. His wise men cannot tell him the meaning. Then it is remembered that Joseph can. Joseph tells the King to expect seven years of good harvests with plenty of food, followed by seven years of failed crops and famine. He suggests a plan to the king to prepare for the famine by saving up food now to be used later when there is none.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Before reading the Bible Story, explain that a lot has happened to Joseph since being sold as a slave. He has been a slave then thrown into prison. God never left him instead He was with Joseph all the way. In prison he helped prisoners and this leads to out Bible Story today. Read Genesis 41:37-44. You may use props for your storytelling activity.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
 Ball Game - When you say "GO," you and your child will pass a ball, you may include other family member and stay in a circle. When you say "STOP, the person who has the ball has to say the next part of the story. When you say "GO," the you may start passing the ball till you say "STOP." Or, you or your child can toss or roll the ball to anyone they choose to say the next part. Help your child if they forget the story.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What did you learn about Joseph's relationship with God from this story?
2. What do you think was going on in Pharaoh's heart and mind in this story?
3. What did you learn about being a follower of Jesus from this story?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You for guiding us and helping us to understand the story of Joseph. May we be like Joseph who puts his trust in You in every situation of his life. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

