---
week: 21
day: 2
title: 'JOSEPH RULERS IN EGYPT'
bible: 'Genesis 41:37-44'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children will understand that God uses difficult experiences to prepare us for His bigger plan for our lives.
- Children will know that God fulfills His promises.

## 2. Note to Parent
* From last week's lesson, a lot of events has happened to Joseph. He was sold as a slave and had to work for Potiphar, but while working there he was accused of a crime: he did not do. Yet in prison, the Lord was with Joseph (Genesis 39).
* Even though Joseph had been through difficult experiences, the Lord was still in control.
- The Lord had not forgotten Joseph.
- The dreams which God had given him as young man were about to be fulfilled.
- God always does what He plans.
* When it was time for God to do what He planned, He brought Joseph out of prison and gave him a high position, just as He had shown Joseph through his dreams when he was younger

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for always being there for us in every situation in our lives. Even in difficult situations we praise You for who You are. Help us as we continue to study your word today. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
James 4:6b-8a (ESV) 6B Therefore it the proud but gives grace to the humble." 7 Submit your- selves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. 8 Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. James 4:6c-7a

## 5. Story Opening
When have you been given a significant or special job or task to do?


## 6. Story Background
Throughout everything that happens to Joseph, we don't see him complain or get angry. He trusts God completely. God allows Joseph to tell the king what his dreams mean. Let's see how God will use Joseph to fulfill God's plan.


## 7. Bible Story
Before reading the Bible Story, explain that a lot has happened to Joseph since being sold as a slave. He has been a slave then thrown into prison. God never left him instead He was with Joseph all the way. In prison he helped prisoners and this leads to out Bible Story today. Read Genesis 41:37-44. You may use props for your storytelling activity.

## 8. Story Retell
Pictionary paper,
- With a pencil/pen and take turns with your child in drawing the different objects/person mentioned in today's story.
LIST OF WORDS:
- Pharaoh
- House
- Ring
- Necklace
- Joseph

## 9. Story Questions
1. How did the story describe God's re- lationship with Joseph?
2. Why do you think God put this story in the Bible?
3. God's big story is not finished yet. How do you think God wants you to have a part in His story, like Joseph?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for using the life of Joseph as an inspiration to us. Thank You for his examples. May we be like him who trust and obeys You despite the difficult situations he encountered. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

