---
week: 22
day: 1
title: 'JOSEPH REVEALS HIMSELF TO HIS FAMILY'
bible: 'Genesis 44:4-9'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
Children will understand that God carries out His plans, even in difficult circumstances.
- Children will learn how God uses Joseph to preserve (save) the line of the Deliverer.
- Children will know that God is in control over all things.

## 2. Note to Parent
Joseph's brothers came to Egypt for food. (Genesis 42:1-3, 6-8) This is due to the famine that God warned Pharaoh with through Joseph (Genesis 40). * Joseph did not want to have revenge on his brothers. Joseph explained to them that God was in control of what happened to him and that He had used the brothers' horrible actions to work for good. * God had placed Joseph the ruler over Egypt, so he could; provide food for the Israelites through the time of famine. *God was providing for Abraham's descendants and preserving (saving) the line of the Deliverer. God works out everything according to His will and plan.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for another week that we can read and study Your Word in the Bible. Guide us as we continue to learn more about the life of Joseph as he reunites with his family. Thank You for my family too, Lord. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


## 4. Memory Verse:
Romans 8:28 (ESV) 28 And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. Romans 8:28

## 5. Story Opening
Tell of a time when you were able to surprise someone.

## 6. Story Background
 Because of the famine, Jacob's broth- ers, who sold Joseph into slavery, have come to Egypt to get food for all of Jacob's family. When they meet the governor, they bow down to him. Does anyone remember the dreams Joseph had when he was a young man? (He dreamed that his family would bow down to him.)

## 7. Bible Story
 Before reading the Bible story, you may share to your child of Genesis 40, when God used Joseph to tell Pharaoh of the feminine. Read Genesis 45:4-9, while reading the story add different voices to make the storytelling more lively.

## 8. Story Retell
Act it Out: Ask your child/ children to help act out the story as you are retelling it.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What might God have been teaching or showing the characters in this story?
2. What surprised you or amazed you about today's story?
3. Because of today's story, what might you do differently?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for helping us understand our lesson for today. Thank you for the life and example of Joseph. May we learn to forgive those people who hurt us and those who do bad things to make us feel bad. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

