---
week: 22
day: 2
title: 'JOSEPH REVEALS HIMSELF TO HIS FAMILY'
bible: 'Genesis 45:4-9'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
Children will understand that God carries out His plans, even in difficult circumstances.
- Children will learn how God uses Joseph to preserve (save) the line of the Deliverer.
- Children will know that God is in control over all things.

## 2. Note to Parent
Joseph's brothers came to Egypt for food. (Genesis 42:1-3, 6-8) This is due to the famine that God warned Pharaoh with through Joseph (Genesis 40). * Joseph did not want to have revenge on his brothers. Joseph explained to them that God was in control of what happened to him and that He had used the brothers' horrible actions to work for good. * God had placed Joseph the ruler over Egypt, so he could; provide food for the Israelites through the time of famine. *God was providing for Abraham's descendants and preserving (saving) the line of the Deliverer. God works out everything according to His will and plan.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for the story of Joseph and his family. Help us to not just remember the things that we learned, but to also apply it in our daily lives. Help us to trust in You all the time. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Romans 8:28 (ESV) 28 And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. Romans 8:28

## 5. Story Opening
Have you ever lost something and then found it? What was it?

## 6. Story Background
Many times, God allows us to have dreams, but what happens in them does not occur for a long time. Joseph's dreams as a young man are about to come true. A long time has passed and many things have happened since then. Let's see if we can figure out God's purpose in the fulfillment of Joseph's dreams!


## 7. Bible Story
 Before reading the Bible story, you may share to your child of Genesis 40, when God used Joseph to tell Pharaoh of the feminine. Read Genesis 45:4-9, while reading the story add different voices to make the storytelling more lively.

## 8. Story Retell
Back and Forth In this activity, you involve your child/children in retelling the story. You start by sharing the first incident of the story. Then your child shares the second incident that happened and so on until the story is completed.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How did God remove guilt and show forgiveness?
2. In what ways is our situation like Joseph's?
3. Is there a character trait you learned about that you might practice at home this week?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for loving us and teaching us that revenge is not the way to deal with the people who hated us. Help us to be more compassionate and loving to them. And may they experience the love that we experienced from You. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

