---
week: 23
day: 1
title: 'MOES A BABY IN A BASKET'
bible: 'Exodus 2:1-10'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children to learn that God protects us and has a plan for each of our lives.
- Children to see that Satan has a goal to do anything He can to ruin God's plans. But he cannot! God is much stronger. He is able to protect those He wants to protect. Children to understand that God shows His care for us by giving people to love us.
- Children to recognize God's presence as Savior as evident in Moses' early life.

## 2. Note to Parent
- Today we begin to study the second book of the Bible Exodus. Exodus means going out. This book records how God took His people, the Israelites, out of Egypt.
- Joseph, his brothers, and their families had continued to: live in Egypt after their father's death, even though the famine had ended. Almost 400 years had passed since the time when Joseph invited his family to move to Egypt. The Pharaoh who now ruled Egypt hated the Israelites and worried that they had become so numerous.
- Over these 400 years, the status of the Israelites had fallen from honored guests to despised slaves. They were treated ruthlessly and forced to work hard to make them weak. The killing to prevent boys possibly growing up into fighting rebels. And yet their numbers increased and Pharaoh feared them. He told two midwives who helped the Israelite mothers when they were having babies to kill baby boys right away (Genesis 1:15-16).
- But, once again, the plan did not work. The midwives refused to follow Pharaoh's direction and act as executioners and told him that they could never make it there in time to kill the baby boys. He then gave an order that every newborn baby boy was to be thrown into the Nile River and killed, but baby girls could live.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for the Bible and the many lessons You teach about Your love. Please help us to listen & hear who You planned to take care of baby Moses. In Jesus' name, Amen!


## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 121:2 My help comes from the Lord, the Maker of heaven and earth." Psalm 121:2 Our help comes from the Lord who created the heaven & earth and therefore no other power can delay it. He has universal & limitless power.

## 5. Story Opening
Who has God given to care for you? What are some of the things they do to take care of you?

## 6. Story Background
Moses' mother was Jochebed and his father Amram (Exodus 6:20; Numbers 26:59). At the time of Moses' birth this couple already had a daughter, Miriam, and a three year old son, Aaron (Exodus 7:7). Jochebed and Amram were descendants of Levi who was one of the twelve sons of Israel Here we see that Moses was born into a family that, by all appearances, seemed to care very much for each other

## 7. Bible Story
For today's Bible story you may read Exodus 2:1-10 and reread or focus on Exodus 2:1-4. You may bring a basket while telling the story.

## 8. Story Retell
Baby Sound: Children or family members stand in a circle. Blindfolded child in the middle turns around and then points randomly to someone and they have to make a baby sound. If the blindfolded person guesses who is making the baby sound then that person goes to the middle, tells the first part of the story and becomes "it". Otherwise they repeat until they guess. Second person to be identified picks up the next part of the story & play carries on until the story is told (Exodus 2:1-4). Works best if kids or family members shuffle around places in between turns.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How did Moses' mother hide him?
2. What would you do / be feeling if that was you watching your baby brother in a basket floating in the river?
3. In what ways have you seen God's care and protection for you?

## 10. Closing Prayer
 Dear God, Thank You for the people who love and care for us just as You cared for baby Moses by giving people to love him and care for him! Help us to love the people around us. In Jesus' name, Amen!


