---
week: 23
day: 2
title: 'MOES A BABY IN A BASKET'
bible: 'Exodus 2:1-10'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- Children to learn that God protects us and has a plan for each of our lives.
- Children to see that Satan has a goal to do anything He can to ruin God's plans. But he cannot! God is much stronger. He is able to protect those He wants to protect. Children to understand that God shows His care for us by giving people to love us.
- Children to recognize God's presence as Savior as evident in Moses' early life.

## 2. Note to Parent
- Today we begin to study the second book of the Bible Exodus. Exodus means going out. This book records how God took His people, the Israelites, out of Egypt.
- Joseph, his brothers, and their families had continued to: live in Egypt after their father's death, even though the famine had ended. Almost 400 years had passed since the time when Joseph invited his family to move to Egypt. The Pharaoh who now ruled Egypt hated the Israelites and worried that they had become so numerous.
- Over these 400 years, the status of the Israelites had fallen from honored guests to despised slaves. They were treated ruthlessly and forced to work hard to make them weak. The killing to prevent boys possibly growing up into fighting rebels. And yet their numbers increased and Pharaoh feared them. He told two midwives who helped the Israelite mothers when they were having babies to kill baby boys right away (Genesis 1:15-16).
- But, once again, the plan did not work. The midwives refused to follow Pharaoh's direction and act as executioners and told him that they could never make it there in time to kill the baby boys. He then gave an order that every newborn baby boy was to be thrown into the Nile River and killed, but baby girls could live.
## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Please help us through today's lesson may we understand that You are always looking out for us. Help us to trust in You in every circumstance that we face. In Jesus name', Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 121:2 *My help comes from the Lord, the Maker of heaven and earth." Psalm 121:2 Our help comes from the Lord who created the heaven & earth and therefore no other power can delay it. He has universal & limitless power.

## 5. Story Opening
What can you do if you are in danger? Do you think God can protect you?

## 6. Story Background
Even though Pharaoh had all kinds of plans to hurt God's people, God knew that someday Moses would be a great leader of his people. God helped Moses' family take care of him and protect him. Even though there was danger everywhere else, we will see how Moses was found by a princess (Pharaoh's own daughter), taken care of by his own mother then when old enough lived safely in the very palace where the Pharaoh lived.

## 7. Bible Story
For today's Bible story you may read Exodus 2:1-10 and reread or focus on Exodus 2:1-4. You may bring a basket while telling the story.

## 8. Story Retell
 CRY AND FIND: Children or family members will scatter around a designated area. One child will be IT and the children / family members will hide and then make a "cry" sound now and then to give clues to the child of where they might be hiding with their sounds. When found, that child / family member will say the first of the story, join in trying to find the "crying" sounds. Second child / family member to be found will take up the story from where the first player left off & so on until the story has been told or everybody has been found!

## 9. Story Questions
1. Do you think Moses was found by accident, or was it God's plan?
2. What do you think Pharaoh's daughter felt when she saw baby Moses?
3. How do we see God's protection in this story?

## 10. Closing Prayer
 Dear God, Thank You for Your protection that is always there, even when we don't know it. You have a plan for us just as You did for Moses. Help us to not worry and depend on You. In Jesus name', Amen!


