---
week: 24
day: 1
title: 'MOES AAND THE BURNING BUSH'
bible: 'Exodus 3:1-12'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
* Children to know that God is completely holy. He is completely powerful. He is the One who makes or declares places to be holy because of His presence.
* Children to learn that God spoke to Moses & He speaks to us today.
* Children to understand that God equips the one He calls: & see the ways God prepared Moses for the assignment.
- God showed Moses how powerful He is - God promised to be with Moses
* Children to understand that we MUST obey God when He tells us to do something & feel the importance of obeying God, even if He asks us to do something we think: is too hard.

## 2. Note to Parent
- Moses was adopted and raised in the palace of the Pharaoh by the Pharaoh's daughter. He grew up in the palace where he received education in all of Egyptian knowledge. Moses was brought up as a prince. Because his mother was allowed to nurse him during his younger years, Moses always knew that he was a Hebrew. Being a Hebrew means that he is a Jew. He is a descendant of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
- When Moses was about 40 years old, he tried to help the Hebrew people by killing an Egyptian. He had to run away from Egypt, because Pharaoh wanted to kill him. Moses decided to escape and travel eastward across the desert to Midian,
- During the next forty years Moses married a local woman (Zipporah) and helped take care of his father-in-law's sheep.
- Back in Egypt, the people of God were crying out for help because of their slavery. God heard their cries, and He remembered His promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They would be a great nation and would have their own land. God was planning to choose someone to lead His people to freedom!

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Just as you spoke to Moses long ago, please speak to our hearts today. Help us to understand and know what You would like us to do. In Jesus name, Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
 Isaiah 41:10 Fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Isaiah 41:10 We do not need to be afraid. The Lord remains our God. He will continue to be with us and strengthen, help in accordance with His faithfulness to His promise to support us

## 5. Story Opening
What is something amazing you have seen before? Why was it amazing?

## 6. Story Background
It seemed like God must have forgotten the Israelites in Egypt, because nothing happened for many years! But God did hear their cries for help. He did remember His promises to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Finally, the time came for God to do something. Moses was on Mt.Horeb, the mountain of God. All of a sudden, he noticed something very strange!

## 7. Bible Story
For today's Bible story you may read Exodus 3:1-12 and reread or focus on Exodus 3:1-6. To make your Bible story time fun and interesting you may read the story by a plant or a bush. You can read in your garden too if you have one.

## 8. Story Retell
 Slippers Off Relay. Divide the children or family members into two teams. Everyone will take off their shoes / san- dals and put in a big pile at the end of the room. All participants will run to the pile and grab their OWN shoes and put them on and run back to their team lines. The team who can find and put on their own shoes in the quickest time wins. Each of members of the other team has to say the first part of the story & the next until the story is told.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What feelings encouraged Moses to examine the burning bush? Why do you think the bush was on fire but was not burning up?
2. Why did God tell Moses to remove his sandals in a gesture of worship? Why do you think Moses was afraid of looking at God? (Exodus 3:6)
3. Just like Moses whom God called & spoke to (Exodus 3:4-6). How can you know what the most powerful, holy God thinks is best or wants for you?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for giving us Your Word the Bible as a way to speak to us these days. I want to know what You say to me in Your Word. Help me to remember and do what You say In Jesus' name. Amen!


