---
week: 24
day: 2
title: 'MOSES AND THE BURNING BUSH'
bible: 'Exodus 3:1-12'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
* Children to know that God is completely holy. He is completely powerful. He is the One who makes or declares places to be holy because of His presence.
* Children to learn that God spoke to Moses & He speaks to us today.
* Children to understand that God equips the one He calls: & see the ways God prepared Moses for the assignment.
- God showed Moses how powerful He is - God promised to be with Moses
* Children to understand that we MUST obey God when He tells us to do something & feel the importance of obeying God, even if He asks us to do something we think: is too hard.

## 2. Note to Parent
- Moses was adopted and raised in the palace of the Pharaoh by the Pharaoh's daughter. He grew up in the palace where he received education in all of Egyptian knowledge. Moses was brought up as a prince. Because his mother was allowed to nurse him during his younger years, Moses always knew that he was a Hebrew. Being a Hebrew means that he is a Jew. He is a descendant of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
- When Moses was about 40 years old, he tried to help the Hebrew people by killing an Egyptian. He had to run away from Egypt, because Pharaoh wanted to kill him. Moses decided to escape and travel eastward across the desert to Midian,
- During the next forty years Moses married a local woman (Zipporah) and helped take care of his father-in-law's sheep.
- Back in Egypt, the people of God were crying out for help because of their slavery. God heard their cries, and He remembered His promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They would be a great nation and would have their own land. God was planning to choose someone to lead His people to freedom!

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, Please help us to listen to what You want Moses to do for Him. Thank You that we can learn to obey You through Moses' life. In Jesus name, Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
 Isaiah 41:10 Fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Isaiah 41:10 We do not need to be afraid. The Lord remains our God. He will continue to be with us and strengthen, help in accordance with His faithfulness to His promise to support us

## 5. Story Opening
 Tell about a time you had to do a really hard job, and how did you handle it?

## 6. Story Background
God was planning to use Moses to rescue the Israelites from their Egyptian masters. God used a weak man, who did not think he would be able to do the job God gave him, in an amazing way. Today's lesson describes the tough assignment & promise God gave to Moses as part of His master plan in saving / delivering the Israelites from bondage or slavery.

## 7. Bible Story
For today's Bible story you may read Exodus 3:1-12 and reread or focus on Exodus 3:7-12. For today's Bible story time, you may make stick puppets of Moses and a burning bush picture.

## 8. Story Retell
Pass the Items. Have the children / family members sit in a circle on floor. Hand each an item (maybe related to the story like a tree branch, slipper, picture of a sheep, mountain etc. (keep a list of all the items), and then have them pass the items around the circle as you play some music for a few minutes. When the music stops call out the name of one item. The child who is holding that item should tell the first part of the story. Keep playing until the story has been retold.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What did God want Moses to do? How did Moses answer God? How did God answer Moses?
2. How do you think Moses felt when told that he was the chosen leader and had to face Pharaoh and the Israelites again?
3. What hard thing has God told you to do, that you think perhaps you cannot do? How can you use God's promise (Exodus 3:12) to Moses to help you finish?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Please help us to respond to tasks with an attitude that You have prepared all that we need to complete the assignment ahead of us. Thank You that we can read and study the Bible. In Jesus' name, Amen!


