---
week: 25
day: 1
title: 'MOSES TELL PHARAOH:" LET MY PEOPLE GO"'
bible: 'Exodus 5:1-2,4,9; 7:3-4'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to understand God's power and wisdom in making a way for the Israelites to be delivered from their slavery.
- For children to learn about the meaning of faith through the obedience of Moses.
- Faith is belief and trust that is so strong we act on it, even when it makes no sense when we look at things with our human eyes

## 2. Note to Parent
- The Israelites living in Egypt at this time had not seen the Lord's greatness and power. They had only heard about the Lord and what He had done for Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph.
- Pharaoh & the Egyptians did not know the only true and living God and Creator of the whole earth. They worshiped the things that God had made. They worshiped the Nile River. They also worshiped the sun, moon, and many different kinds of animals. They had many, many gods. They also worshiped Pharaoh, their king, as a god. Satan had kept them from understanding the truth.
- On numerous occasions in Exodus, God is said to have hardened Pharaoh's heart, it seems to hinder Pharaoh's exercise of his own will. But Pharaoh also hardened his own heart. The first two references to God's hardening Pharaoh's heart (4:21; 7:3) were actually predictions that He would do it in the future. Then in the next seven references Pharaoh is said to have hardened his own heart (7:13-14, 22; 8:15, 19, 32; 9:7) before God is said to have hardened it (9:12; 10:1, 20, 27; 11:10; 14:4, 8)

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, You are loving and You are powerful. May we have soft hearts willing to accept your love and power. Help us as we read and study the Bible. In Jesus' name, Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
Romans 9:17 For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, "For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I might show My power in you, and that My name might be proclaimed in all the earth. Romans 9:17
Pharaoh was ultimately raised up by the Lord's power & infinite wisdom so that in his rebellion against God he might be an instrument for God's glory and for the procla- mation of His name in all the earth.

## 5. Story Opening
Who gives the most orders in your house? What happens when you don't follow them?

## 6. Story Background
From the time he was a baby, God has had a special purpose for a man named Moses. From being raised in the palace in Egypt, Moses eventually becomes a shepherd until he is visited by the Lord. He tells Moses that He has heard the cries of the Israelites and will now use Moses to save them. It was now time for Moses and Aaron, Moses' brother, to do what God had commanded. But they will soon find out that Pharaoh is not interested in listening to them, more importantly he is not interested in obeying and listening to God.


## 7. Bible Story
Read Exodus 5:1-2, 4, 9; 7:3-4 from the Bible, these passages are chosen as summary to the Bible story. You may use puppets for the different people in the Bible story.

## 8. Story Retell
  Act it Out: Ask your child/children to help act out the story as you are retelling it. You can be part of the retell activity so the roles of Moses, Pharaoh, and Aaron can be played.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What did Moses and Aaron tell Pha- raoh? How did Pharaoh respond?
2. If you were Moses, how would you feel? Have you ever felt the same as Pharaoh when it comes to obeying?
3. Learning from our Bible story, what do you thinks is God asking you to do?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank you for our Bible lesson that teaches us to listen and obey. Help us to not just say yes to You, but to obey You right away with a joyful heart. Sorry for the times that we do not do this. Help us starting today to obey and love You more. In Jesus' name, Amen!

