---
week: 25
day: 2
title: 'MOSES TELL PHARAOH:" LET MY PEOPLE GO"'
bible: 'Exodus 7:14-11:10'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to understand how God is so much more powerful than anything, or anyone else. He is more powerful than kings, and more powerful than Satan!
- For children to know that each of the plagues pointed to: one of the false gods of the Egyptians: for example, their frog god, their sun god, and their storm god. God was showing the Egyptians that He is the only true God


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
* Because the king of Egypt refused to release the Israelites, the Lord began to show His great power.
* Pharaoh and the Egyptian people could not save themselves from these terrible plagues sent by the Lord. Neither could their false gods save them.
* The Lord protected the Israelites even though they were: sinful and didn't deserved His care. He protected them because of His love, mercy, and grace.
- Another reason God protected the Israelites was that God had not forgotten His promises to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
- God also protected Israel from the plagues, so that the king of Egypt would realize that the God of Israel was the only true, living God in the whole earth.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, As we continue to study Your Word, please help us understand and remember how powerful and great You. We praise You for nothing is too hard for You. Help us to trus in You always. In Jesus' name, Amen!


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Romans 9:17 For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, "For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I might show My power in you, and that My name might be proclaimed in all the earth. Romans 9:17
Pharaoh was ultimately raised up by the Lord's power & infinite wisdom so that in his rebellion against God he might be an instrument for God's glory and for the proclamation of His name in all the earth.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Have you ever seen God's power on display? Maybe through a thunderstorm or the crashing waves of the ocean?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God sends Moses to release His people who are slaves in Egypt because He wants them to worship Him. Pharaoh keeps saying "NO." God keeps showing that He is more powerful than the gods of Egypt by sending plagues. A plague is a terrible event that affects many people. Moses speaks for the Lord and continually goes to Pharaoh saying, "Let my people go!"



{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read the following passages Exodus 7:14-11:10, note that the passage may seem long. You may choose to read one plague a day for children to better understand the Bible Story. A summary has also been included in a separate page to help you tell the story. You may include props of picture to tell story.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Leap Frog (Luksong Baka) - the first child should crouch while shouting out the 1st plague of Egypt (younger children can simply crouch on the floor tucking in their head and feet). The 2nd child jumps over the first child and recounts the 1st plague of Egypt. On land- ing this child immediately stoops down into the crouching position while shouting out the 2nd plague. The third child has to leap over the first and second (recounting the 1st & 2nd plague) and then adopts the crouching position while shouting out the 3rd plague. Play repeat continuously until all the 9 plagues have been recounted in the correct order.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. How did God display His power to Pharaoh and all of Egypt? Can you name all the plagues?
2. Which plague do you think would have been the worst to experience? How would you feel if you were there during that time?
3. In what ways are our hearts hard just like Pharaoh's and in what ways we find it hard to obey God too? What can you do to obey God and what He says through the Bible?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank you for the Bible which tells us all about your power and might. Let us see Your power at work in our own lives too. Thank you for always being in control. In Jesus' name, Amen!

## Bible Story Summary:
- You may use this summary for younger children or as a review to the Bible Story you have read with your chil- dren in the Bible. The words in parentheses can be the children's part as you tell the summary. Moses and his brother Aaron went to Pharaoh and said, "The Lord, the God of Israel, says: 'Let my people go! want them to worship me."
"Why should I listen to you and your god?" Pharaoh asked. "Stop being lazy and get back to work!" Pharaoh was very stubborn and would not listen. He made the Israelites work harder than ever. So, God sent a series of warnings, called plagues. This is what God did:
• The water in the Nile River turned into blood.
• All of the fish died and it smelled terrible. (Let my people go! NO!)
• Then, there were frogs hopping everywhere! (Let my people go! NO!)
• Next, gnats and flies swarmed them. (Let my people go! NO!)
• Their cows caught diseases. (Let my people go! NO!) They got sores on their bodies. (Let my people go! NO!)
• And strong hailstorms and locusts destroyed their crops. (Let my people go! NO!)
• Then, it was dark outside for three entire days. (Let my people go! NO!)
So Moses warned Pharaoh about a final plague: "If you don't let us leave, every firstborn son will die, including your own. Then all your servants will beg us to leave Egypt." But Pharaoh still would not listen. (Let my people go! NO!)

