---
week: 26
day: 2
title: 'MOSES - THE PASSOVER'
bible: 'Exodus 12:28-39'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God always provides a way of escape for those who believe and trust in Him.
- For children to learn that the Passover, marked the evening that the children of Israel were finally brought out of slavery in Egypt. On the night of the Passover, God delivered His people out of bondage and started them on their journey toward the Promised Land
- For children to understand how the story of the Passover Lamb foreshadows the gospel story of Jesus' death for us on the cross.

## 2. Note to Parent
- God was going to pass through Egypt that night, and kill all the firstborns, both man and animal. But, if He saw the blood from the lamb on the doorpost of a house, God was going to pass over that house. The life of the first-born children in that house would be spared.
- Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron after that, and told them to go, to leave Egypt. The rest of the Egyptians urged: the Israelites to go quickly! They were afraid that if they stayed any longer, they would all be dead!
- The Israelites asked their Egyptian neighbors for silver and gold, and clothing, and they gave it to them. They would do anything to get rid of Moses and the Israelites now! So Moses and the children of Israel took their food, their clothes, and their animals, and left! There were about 600,000 men, and then women and children too!
- When the Israelites put their faith in God and placed the blood of the Passover Lamb on their doorframes, they were saved. They didn't face judgment like the rest of Egypt. When we put our faith in Jesus (and what He did for us on the cross) we don't face judgment anymore. God sees Jesus' blood, which was shed for us, and we are saved; just like when He saw the Passover Lamb's blood and the Israelites were saved. The children of Israel were brought out of slavery in Egypt that night, and when we believe in Jesus we are brought out of slavery to sin.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You that You keep Your promises and You see us through any situation as we trust in You. Please help through our lesson today to understand what Passover is and what it means for us. In Jesus' name, Amen!


## 4. Memory Verse:
Ephesians 1:7-8 In Him we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of His grace, which He lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight
It is only through Jesus that we are saved from our trespasses or sins. We are saved through God's grace alone when we fully trust in Him.

## 5. Story Opening
Finish the sentence: Something silly or unusual thing that I like to do is...

## 6. Story Background
After the final plague, God promised Moses that Pharaoh would let them all leave. In fact, Pharaoh would drive them out of Egypt! It would be such a terrible plague that the Egyptians would hand over all their silver, and their gold, and beg the Israelites to leave! Pharaoh got up that night, and realized that all the firstborn children of Egypt were dead. His son had died, and even the servants' children. Wailing or loud and painful cries could be heard all over the land, because in each home, a firstborn had died! It was an awful, awful thing.

## 7. Bible Story
To continue the story, read Exodus 12:28-39. You may review what happened previously. You may make actions as you tell the story.

## 8. Story Retell
Passover Doorways: Recreate the doorways that the Israelites had in their homes by using 3 strips of paper, glues, and coloring materials. Give each child a piece of paper and 3 strips of paper (2 long and 1 short). Have them recreate a doorframe on their paper, by gluing down the brown strips. When dry enough, hang up the papers, and allow the children to put red on the top and sides of the doorframe using coloring materials. Retell the story as the children are creating their doorways.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What was the last judgment or plague that God sent on the Egyptians?
2. What emotions do you think the Israelites felt, especially when they realized they were free to go?
3. Just as the Israelites were saved by the blood on the door, we can be saved by the blood of Christ. How will you respond to Jesus today?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You that when we put our faith in Jesus and what He did You will save us. Help us to remember and celebrate all You have done. May we be able to share Your goodness to others. In Jesus' name, Amen!

