---
week: 27
day: 1
title: 'MOSES - CROSSING THE RED SEA ON DRY GROUND'
bible: 'Exodus 14 : 21-31'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to read and see the great and awesome power of God that can work great wonders like opening the Sea; that what is impossible for man, is possible with GOD For children to know that the Lord can utterly protect those who are His
- For children to appreciate that God is faithful to HIS promise as seen in saving the Israelites from Egyptian bondage


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- All throughout this evacuation from Egypt, to crossing the Red Sea, and beyond, the Lord was with them protecting and guiding them in a Pillar of Cloud during Day time (to shield and cover them; to cool and protect them from the scorching heat of the desert) and a Pillar of Fire during Night Time (to give them light and perhaps to cool them to possible chilling weather in the desert at night) [Exodus 13:21-22]
- In today's Bible story we can see that God can bring His people through the greatest difficulties, in situations unthinkable to man, and force a way where man can't find solutions to learn to fully surrender and trust Him. God created the sea and owns it. He has control over it. God is not tied to the laws of nature being the GOD of nature. When He pleases, He can do wonders like commanding the waters to move back and produce dry land in the middle of the sea, and it is done. Nothing is too hard or impossible for the Lord.
- Across the narrative we will see the Name of GOD. It was Him alone, by His Great Power, By His Almighty Hands, by His Faithfulness, because of His wonderful favor to Israel, by His righteousness, His amazing providence, that these all were accomplished.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
 Dear God, We praise and thank you today for another moment to get back to your Word and relive, reflect, discuss, and respond to what you will be teaching us. This is for our good, and for your Glory. Thank you for your grace. In Jesus name we pray, Amen



{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Exodus 14:13-14 And Moses said to the people, "Fear not, stand firm, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will work for you today. For the Egyptians whom you see today, you shall never see again. The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be silent." Exodus 14:13b


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Tell of a time when you did something that took a lot of strength to accomplish?



{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God has miraculously used Moses to free the Israelites from being slaves in Egypt. The Pharaoh has agreed to let them go. Moses and the people have left but now the Pharaoh wants to cap- ture the people and bring them back to Egypt. The Israelites have gotten as far as the coast of the Red Sea. Now they feel trapped because the Red Sea is on one side and Pharaoh and his army are on the other. God tells Moses how to use his staff to cross the Red Sea



{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
 Read and tell the story from the Bible in Exodus 14:21-31. You may add sound effects like the sound of water or chariots / horses or scared people when telling the story.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Comic Strip- Give each child a sheet of paper. Have them fold it in half, then fold that half again and then a third time. When you open the paper, there should be 8 boxes on the paper. For each scene or action in the Bible story, have each child draw a simple picture or object in each box in the order that it happens in the story. Let your child/children retell the story to by using their comic strips.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What does the story tell about the re- lationship of God with the Israelites?
2. What were you imagining as the story was being told? How did it make you feel?
3. From what you have learned today, what are the things God might be saying to you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Yours Oh LORD is the Greatness and the Power, and the Glory! We praise You and worship You! Thank You for Your word that reminds us that in every situation, You are with those who trust in You. Thank that when we choose and trust in You as our Savior and Lord, You will never leave us. In Jesus name I pray, Amen


