---
week: 27
day: 2
title: 'MOSES - CROSSING THE RED SEA ON DRY GROUND'
bible: 'Exodus 14 : 21-31'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to read and see the great and awesome power of God that can work great wonders like opening the Sea; that what is impossible for man, is possible with GOD
- For children to know that the Lord can utterly protect those who are His
- For children to appreciate that God is faithful to HIS promise as seen in saving the Israelites from Egyptian bondage

## 2. Note to Parent
- All throughout this evacuation from Egypt, to crossing the Red Sea, and beyond, the Lord was with them protecting and guiding them in a Pillar of Cloud during Day time (to shield and cover them; to cool and protect them from the scorching heat of the desert) and a Pillar of Fire during Night Time (to give them light and perhaps to cool them to possible chilling weather in the desert at night) [Exodus 13:21-22]
- In today's Bible story we can see that God can bring His people through the greatest difficulties, in situations unthinkable to man, and force a way where man can't find solutions to learn to fully surrender and trust Him. God created the sea and owns it. He has control over it. God is not tied to the laws of nature being the GOD of nature. When He pleases, He can do wonders like commanding the waters to move back and produce dry land in the middle of the sea, and it is done. Nothing is too hard or impossible for the Lord.
- Across the narrative we will see the Name of GOD. It was Him alone, by His Great Power, By His Almighty Hands, by His Faithfulness, because of His wonderful favor to Israel, by His righteousness, His amazing providence, that these all were accomplished.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, The other day we were so blessed and strengthened seeing how awesome You, our GOD is! Thank you for building us up with these truth about you. Once again, we commit to you our hearts and minds as we continue our study. We want to know you,even more deeply! In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


## 4. Memory Verse:
Exodus 14:13-14 And Moses said to the people, "Fear not, stand firm, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will work for you today. For the Egyptians whom you see today, you shall never see again. The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be silent." Exodus 14:13b

## 5. Story Opening
Can you describe a time when you felt trapped?


## 6. Story Background
God promises Moses that He will rescue them. God tells Moses to use his shepherd staff and hold it out over the red Sea and that a path will open up for the people to cross on. God also tells Moses that Pharaoh and his army will follow them into the Red Sea and then God will be given the glory for the victory that will happen.


## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story from the Bible in Exodus 14:21-31. You may add sound effects like the sound of water or char- iots / horses or scared people when telling the story.

## 8. Story Retell
Ball Game
When you say "GO," the family members pass the ball around the circle until you say "STOP." The person who has the ball has to say the next part of the story. When you say "GO," they start passing the ball till you say "STOP." Or, children can toss or roll the ball to anyone they choose to say the next part.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What are the characteristics of GOD that you learned from the story? What quality of God came into your mind as the story was being told?
2. Why do you think God made sure that this event will be recorded in detail in the Bible? How can this story help us today?
3. How will this story change the way you live your life now as a follower of Jesus Christ? What is one thing you want to share others about GOD in this story?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, With all our hearts we say, what a Mighty and Faithful GOD we have, and we serve! Thank You for how You have worked before with Moses and the Israelites. Thank You that You are able to do the same today. Help us in times of sadness or trouble to always obey and follow You. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.

