---
week: 28
day: 1
title: 'MOSES -  GOD PROVIDES FOOD IN TH WILDERNESS'
bible: 'Exodus 16 : 8-24'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to read and see the great power of GOD in supplying every need of His people on a day to day basis.
- For children to know the importance of trusting in GOD, obeying His commandments as it is; and fully depending on His faithful provisions
- For children to understand that we are helplessness, and we are in great need of the Lord.

## 2. Note to Parent
- The Israelites are not deserving of anything from the LORD being constant complainers, disobedient and rebellious, nevertheless, GOD supplied all of their needs. In the: evening, God sent quails in the Israelites camp. In the morning, God provided food in the form of "Manna". In verse 31, Manna is described as "It was like coriander seed, white, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey."
- God promised to provide for the Israelites food in the wilderness. It was His gift to them to satisfy their tempo- rary needs. In John 6:48-51, Jesus compares Himself to manna and says that only He is the bread of life who sat- isfies our eternal, spiritual needs.
- In verses 22-24, God gave special instructions to the ls- raelites about Sabbath or God's ordained day of rest. This serves as a reminder to us to rest, but most importantly to carefully guard our time with the Lord and not be busy with work or different tasks.

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, We thank you for being our Faithful GOD. We greatly appreciate you for blessing us once again of an- other day of learning from your WORD. Open our hearts and minds as we listen. Help me also as I teach and de- liver Your Word, 0 Lord. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


## 4. Memory Verse:
 Matthew 6:32b-33-32 For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. 33But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Matthew 6:33

## 5. Story Opening
If you could eat something over and over again, what would it be?


## 6. Story Background
As God raised up Moses to lead the Israelites, God's people out of Egypt, they now face the wilderness. Being in the wilderness has become a challenge to them. The people were walking through the wilderness but are grumbling and complaining because they don't have any food. How will God provide for all these people?


## 7. Bible Story
 Read and tell Exodus 16:8-15 using the Bible. You may draw, print, or show picture of a quail when telling the story. For manna, you can cut small pieces of white paper and spread it on the floor to make story time more exciting.

## 8. Story Retell
JACK EN POY (Rock, Paper, Scissors)
1. Divide the Bible Story in different parts. It can be by verse. (You may use this in fact in telling the Bible Story. Review this with your child after, familiarizing them with the flow)
2. Play Jack En Poy with your children. The "Loser" on each round tells the next part of the story until it ends.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What were the Israelites complaining about? How did God answer them?
2. How are you like the Israelites? Are there times we complain about things or circumstances?
3. What is something you want GOD to change in you after reading this story?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank you for being our Faithful and Good God! You are faithful in providing our needs and You always give what is best for us! Teach us to be content in Your love and care. Help us to respond with worship and service with a cheerful heart. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.

