---
week: 28
day: 2
title: 'MOSES -  GOD PROVIDES FOOD IN TH WILDERNESS'
bible: 'Exodus 16 : 8-24'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to read and see the great power of GOD in supplying every need of His people on a day to day basis.
- For children to know the importance of trusting in GOD, obeying His commandments as it is; and fully depending on His faithful provisions
- For children to understand that we are helplessness, and we are in great need of the Lord .


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- The Israelites are not deserving of anything from the LORD being constant complainers, disobedient and rebellious, nevertheless, GOD supplied all of their needs. In the: evening, God sent quails in the Israelites camp. In the morning, God provided food in the form of "Manna". In verse 31, Manna is described as "It was like coriander seed, white, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey."
- God promised to provide for the Israelites food in the wilderness. It was His gift to them to satisfy their tempo- rary needs. In John 6:48-51, Jesus compares Himself to manna and says that only He is the bread of life who satisfies our eternal, spiritual needs.
- In verses 22-24, God gave special instructions to the Israelites about Sabbath or God's ordained day of rest. This serves as a reminder to us to rest, but most importantly to carefully guard our time with the Lord and not be busy with work or different tasks.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, How wonderful are Your Words 0 LORD, that we look forward to listening and learning from today. Thank you for always providing for our needs and for being there for us. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Matthew 6:32b-33 32 For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. 33But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Matthew 6:33


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is something that would be really hard for your family to live without?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God continually does miracles to help the Jewish people or the nation of Israel. But still they grumble and complain. Though they were slaves in Egypt, they complain that they would rather go back because they knew they would have food but now they don't know where it is going to come from. Each day God provides manna for them to eat. Manna was a fine flake-like thing that they found on the ground every morning.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
 Read and tell Exodus 16:16-24 using the Bible. You may draw, print, or show a picture of a quail when telling the story. For manna, you can cut small pieces of white paper and spread it on the floor to make story time more exciting. Story Retell: Back and Forth In this activity, you in- volve your child/children in retelling the story. You start by sharing the first incident of the story. Then your child shares the second incident that hap- pened and so on until the story is com- pleted.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Back and Forth
In this activity, you involve your child/children in retelling the story. You start by sharing the first incident of the story. Then your child shares the second incident that hap- pened and so on until the story is completed.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. In GOD providing food for the Israel- ites, according to the number of persons in the family, as much as every- one can eat, with no one lacking anything (verse 16), What does this show or tell us about HIM?
2. What are somethings that you can thank God for?
3. Because of this story today, how might you live differently as a follower of Christ?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You for Your mercy endures forever Oh LORD. Despite our unfaithfulness, You remain faithful and provide for all our needs everyday. Help us to be a blessing to the people around us. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.


