---
week: 29
day: 1
title: 'MOSES -  GOD PROVIDES WATER IN THE WILDERNESS'
bible: 'Exodus 17 : 1-8'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know and understand what it means to have God as our great provider
- For children to learn to appreciate and be thankful for God's daily provisions

## 2. Note to Parent
* Israel complains again Exodus 17:1-4
- Although the Israelites were thankful for the Lord's provision of food, they soon forgot about His great power and began to complain again. They were thirsty.
* God provided them with water Exodus 17:5-6
- God told Moses what to do.
* God faithfully protected the Israelites and provided all they needed even though they didn't deserve anything from God. These are miracles - God's miracles.
- They show us His faithfulness to keep His promises.
- They show us His great love for His people.
- They show us His mighty power over all creation.
* Through this Bible Story, God reminds us that instead of complaining or grumbling, let us present our request, situations, and question to Him

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for another week that we can read and study Your word. Thank You for providing for our daily needs. Help us to understand Your Word. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
 Matthew 6:25-26 25 "Therefore I'tell you, do not be anx- ious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? 26 Look at the birds of the air. they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Matthew 6:25b

## 5. Story Opening
Finish the sentence: "I am really thankful for ..."


## 6. Story Background
As the Israelites journey in the wilderness. They have been complaining about wanting to go back to Egypt despite the many years of hardship and slavery. They also complained of not having food. Despite their complaints against God, He provided them with quail and manna. Today let's read more about the Israelites' journey.


## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story about Exodus 17:1-6 to your child. You can bring a rock and a glass of water with you as you tell the story.

## 8. Story Retell
Count to Fifty - Slowly count to 50 and see if the children can retell the story before you hit 50 (or another number that works for the story). For younger children you may show pictures or help them if they forget.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How did God respond to the Israelites in the story? What does this show us?
2. What do you think was going on in Moses' heart and mind in this story?
3. From what you learned today, what do you feel God might be saying to you?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for today's story and reminder. Thank You for providing for our needs. Sorry for the times that we complain. Help us to be thankful for Your provisions. In Jesus name we pray, Amen

