---
week: 29
day: 2
title: 'MOSES -  GOD PROVIDES WATER IN THE WILDERNESS'
bible: 'Exodus 17 : 1-8'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know and understand what it means to have God as our great provider
- For children to learn to appreciate and be thankful God's daily provisions

## 2. Note to Parent
* Israel complains again - Exodus 17:1-4
- Although the Israelites were thankful for the Lord's pro-:7) vision of food, they soon forgot about His great power anD began to complain again. They were thirsty.
* God provided them with water Exodus 17:5-6
- God told Moses what to do. God faithfully protected the Israelites and provided all they needed even though they didn't deserve anything from God. These are miracles - God's miracles.
- They show us His faithfulness to keep His promises.
- They show us His great love for His people.
- They show us His mighty power over all creation.
* Through this Bible Story, God reminds us that instead of complaining or grumbling, let us present our request, situations, and question to Him

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for a new day to learn from the Bible. Thank You for Your continuous provisions for our family. May You guide us as we continue to study Your word today. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Matthew 6:25-26- 25 "Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? 26 Look at the birds of the air. they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Matthew 6:25b

## 5. Story Opening
What activity makes you really thirsty?


## 6. Story Background
After the Lord miraculously lets the Hebrew people leave Egypt, God continues to provide the things they need though the people continually complain about the things He provides. God Still loves them.


## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story about Exodus 17:1-6 to your child. Involve your child during story time by asking him/her to create sound effects.

## 8. Story Retell
Group Poster - Using different materials you have at home, create a poster or a picture with your child or you can have the children work together. The poster or picture should show what happened in today's Bible Story. They can also place what they learned or what they plan to do with the lessons they learned. Allow the children to retell the story by using what they made on the poster.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What might God have been teaching or showing the Moses and the Israel- ites in this story?
2. In what ways are we also like the Israelites? In what ways are we different?
3. From what you learned today, what do you feel God might asking you to do?

## 10. Closing Prayer
 Dear God, Thank You for continuously providing for our needs despite our continuous complains and demands. Thank You loving us. Help us to be thankful and grateful for Your provisions. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


