---
week: 30
day: 1
title: 'MOSES - GOD GIVE THE TEN COMMANDEMENTS'
bible: 'Exodus 20 : 1-17'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to understand the purpose of the Ten Commandments
- For children to realize the need to know God better and how to follow Him
- For children to understand that God wants what's best for us


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
* The First commandment Exodus 20:3.
- In the first commandment, God said He and only He should be everyone's God.
* The second commandment - Exodus 20:4-6.
- All who worship man-made things that they think rep- resent God have broken this command of God and are condemned.
* The third commandment - Exodus 20:7.
- God told the Israelites that they must always respect Him and never speak or use His name in a careless way.
* The fourth commandment Exodus 20:8-11.
- God told the Israelites to keep the seventh day as a special day of rest in honor of Him.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Thank You for another week that we can read and study Your word. Thank You for guiding us in our every day lives. Help us to understand your Word. In Jesus name we pray, Amen


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Deuteronomy 6:4-5-4 "Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. 5 You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. Deuteronomy 6:5


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is a hard rule for you to follow?



{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
While journeying, God provides all the food and water the Israelites need. But God knows they need some help in knowing how to follow Him, so He is about to give them some rules to follow by speaking to Moses.



{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
 Read and tell the story about Exodus 20:1-11 to your child. As you read the Bible story you may write the commandments in paper to imitate what is happening in the Bible.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Rope Game - Get a piece of rope and tie the ends together. Have the children get in a circle, the whole family may also join in, with each one holding on to the rope. Start moving the rope in one direction. When you say "STOP," the person closest to the knot has to say the next part of the story. Continue doing this till the whole story is told.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Can you memorize some of the ten commandments? What did you notice about God from the story?
2. How do you feel about the command- ments? Do you think it was easy or hard? Why?
3. Because of today's story what do you think is God teaching you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You for the Ten Commandments. Thank You that you love us and give us rules to follow. May You guide us as we learn to listen and obey to Your rules. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

