---
week: 30
day: 2
title: 'MOSES - GOD GIVE THR TE COMMANDEMENTS'
bible: 'Exodus 20 : 1-17'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to understand the purpose of the Ten Com- mandments
- For children to realize the need to know God better and how to follow Him
- For children to understand that God wants what's best for us

## 2. Note to Parent
The fifth commandment Exodus 20:12.
- God said that children must honor (respect) and obey their parents.
* The sixth commandment Exodus 20:13.
- God told the Israelites that to murder someone is a sin.
* The seventh commandment - Exodus 20:14.
- God says it is sin to have any sexual relationship with anyone except one's own wife or husband.
* The eighth commandment - Exodus
- God said the Israelites must never take anything belonging to someone else.
* The ninth commandment - Exodus 20:16.
- God said the Israelites must always tell the truth about everything.
* The tenth commandment Exodus 20:17.
- God told the Israelites that they must not covet, that is, want what belongs to other people. Man must not envy other people's things, their abilities, how they look, or whatever they have.
* Conclusion:
- God's commandments are the same for all people, everywhere. Now people knew what the Lord considered to be sin.
- God knew that people could not keep this list of rules perfectly. However, He had a reason for giving them these: commandments.
- God wants people to do good things, but He wants them to understand that these good things cannot make them acceptable to God and restore their broken relationship with Him. Our goodness falls short of God's holiness. God wanted people to see that to be accepted by Him and saved from Satan, sin, and death they would have to come: another way. The Bible says that only God in His mercy can make a way for people to be saved from their sin and made acceptable to God, this is found in John 3:16 and Romans 6:23.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for the Ten Commandments. May you help us to further understand our lesson for today. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Deuteronomy 6:4-5-4 "Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. 5 You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. Deuteronomy 6:5

## 5. Story Opening
Who is someone that you love very much? How do you show them that you love them?

## 6. Story Background
God has Moses come up to Mt Sinai to receive some special instructions from Him. These instructions will help the people to know God better and how to follow Him.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story about Exodus 20:12-17 to your child. As you read the Bible story you may write the commandments in paper to imitate what is happening in the Bible.

## 8. Story Retell
- You and your child or if you have other children are get into smaller groups of two. Each person will take a turn retelling the story. If someone gets stuck and can't remember the next part, you or their partner can help them out.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Try memorizing the ten command- ments by putting some action or placing them in song.
2. Why do you think God put this story in the Bible?
3. How will you respond to God and His Word today?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for today's lesson. Thank You for the instructions that You gave that helped us to know more about You and how we can follow You. Help us to listen, understand and obey Your instructions. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

