---
week: 31
day: 1
title: 'MOSES - GOD’S PEOPLE WORSHIPS A GOLDEN CAFT'
bible: 'Exodus 32 : 1-14'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
 - For children to understand and know that the deal God made with the Israelites, to follow all His commands perfectly so that He could be their God, was broken.
- For children to learn that an idol is an object or picture of a god or something that people worship other than God: Himself.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- Moses and his assistant, Joshua, were called up onto the mountain to meet God. God did not want the people to: forget about His commandments, so He was going to write them all out for them on two pieces of stone. Moses could bring these back down to the people, and teach them about the way God wanted them to live.
- While Moses was talking to God about this, God also explained to Moses other rules and customs He was commanding the Israelites to follow. It took a long time. Moses was on the mountain for forty days and forty nights receiving all these instructions.
- As the Israelites were waiting for Moses to return. They became impatient and asked Aaron to make a god for them. Aaron gave into their requests and collected their gold jewelry to make an idol for them to bow before, which the Israelites then claimed had delivered them from Egypt. Once they made the idol, the Israelites began imitating the way the Egyptians worshipped, with parties, and drinking and feasting. They were behaving as they wanted, copying other nations.
- The people had forgotten what they had promised God, to obey Him & His commandment to worship Him only. The Israelites had forgotten God, and their forgetting led them into sin.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, You are the one true God. You are the only one worthy of our praise and worship. No thing or person should ever take Your place in our lives. Help us to always remember this. In Jesus' name. Amen!


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
 Matthew 4:10b "You shall worship the Lord you God and Him only shall you serve." Matthew 4:10b Note: In such a short time, the Israelites had forgotten this very important rule God wants us to follow! God does not allow us to have anything in our life more important than Him!


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
If you are able to create something extraordinary, what would it be and why would you make it?



{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
In the past days as we read about Moses' life we saw different miracles that God had done for His people the Israelites. From crossing the sea, manna from God, and water from rocks! Now we have come to the part where God has Moses come up to Mt. Sinai to receive the special rules for the people to follow.
The Israelites, meanwhile, became anxious that Moses was gone for so long (40 days), they began to think Moses was not coming back. They thought if Moses didn't return, who would lead them out of the desert? How would they get to the Promised Land? They thought they don't need God or He is not powerful enough to help them. Rather than remembering and trusting God they came up with a very different plan..



{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Before reading Exodus 32:1-6, you may explain that an idol is an object or picture of a god or something that people worship other than God Himself. You may add actions as you tell the story.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Golden Calf - draw or print a picture of a golden calf. Cut picture into pieces, like a puzzle. Hang or stick the puzzle up on wall or you may have it formed on the table or florr. As children tells a part of the story in the correct order, allow them to pull down/ remove one puzzle piece at a time, to take down the golden calf idol.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Who were the characters in our Bible story and what did they do?
2. When the Israelites wanted Aaron to make a god for them to worship, what should Aaron have answered them?
3. ldols are things or people that we think is more import- ant than God. What are some things you treat as more im- portant than God? Are these things bad? How can we make sure they do not become more important to us than God?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, May we always love and serve You only all the days of our lives. Forgive us if sometimes we choose other or other things to be more im- portant than You. Help us to always put You first in everything we do. In Jesus' name. Amen!


