---
week: 31
day: 2
title: 'MOSES - GOD’S PEOPLE WORSHIPS A GOLDEN CAFT'
bible: 'Exodus 32 : 1-14'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that to worship something or someone means to make it the most important thing in your life. It means the spending the most time and effort with.
- For children to learn that a mediator is someone who is in the middle-that speaks on behalf of someone else and how Moses became one for the Israelites.
- For children to discover that where sin is great, God's grace is greater.

## 2. Note to Parent
- While Moses was still in God's presence, He knew what the people were doing down below. He told Moses the people were sinning.
- God wanted to destroy the Israelites and start all over with just Moses. But Moses didn't want God's reputation among the nations to suffer. He pleaded with God to forgive the people. And God changed His mind.
- Moses was a mediator for the Israelites. Moses speaks to God on behalf of the people and God speaks to Moses on behalf of the people. He stood in God's presence and spoke to Him on behalf of the Israelites so that God wouldn't destroy them.
- The Israelites did a really, really bad thing in worshipping the golden calf, but God still forgave them and loved them as His chosen people.
- The reason we need a mediator is because we are sinful: and God is holy. A Holy God cannot be in the presence of sinful people and there is nothing we, as sinful people, can do on our own to get rid of our sin.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You today for Your incredible grace & mercy in our lives. Thank You for the Bible where we can read and learn about Your love for us. Help us to not only understand, but to apply what You would want us to do. In Jesus' name. Amen
## 4. Memory Verse:
Matthew 4:10b "You shall worship the Lord you God and Him only shall you serve." Matthew 4:10b Note: In such a short time, the Israel- ites had forgotten this very important rule God wants us to follow! God does not allow us to have anything in our life more important than Him!

## 5. Story Opening
What can you do on behalf of a family member or friend? (example: cleaning something instead of your mother doing it)


## 6. Story Background
 From our last Bible story, we learned about the bad thing that the Israelites choose to do while Moses was talking with God. While these things were happening, God knew about it. Instead of destroying all the people, God listened to Moses and decided to save them. God listened to Moses, not because Moses was perfect or without sin, but because God was merciful and had chosen him to be the mediator. Moses loved and cared about his people, but even he couldn't take away their sin. He could only talk to God and ask God to have mercy on them.

## 7. Bible Story
Before reading Exodus 32:7-14, you may ask your child/children to recall or retell what happened in the earlier verses then connect it by reading the passage.

## 8. Story Retell
Pass the Message Play this activity as a whole family. One family member can be the game master. If there are not enough players a player who can read can be the one reading the messages to be passed. All the farnily member will line-up and pass the message from one family member to another. If the message is correct then the next player will do the same until the message has been said correctly by the last player. Repeat the steps and finish passing all the messages. The messages are:
1. God told Moses to go down the mountain.
2. God told Moses that the people were worshipping an idol.
3. God told Moses that He was going to destroy the people.
4. Moses spoke to God and asked Him not to destroy the people.
5. Moses reminded God how He had rescued the people.
6. Moses reminded God of His promises to the people.
7. Moses pleaded with God not to destroy the people.
8. God heard his cry and did not destroy the people.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How did God feel about what the Isra- elites were doing? How did Moses re- spond?
2. How did God show mercy on the Isra- elites? [Mercy means forgiving others and not punishing them for what they deserve]
3. Why did we need a mediator? What was the disagreement between God and man that we could never work out on our own? (You may review past Bible stories about this)

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You so much for giving us the perfect mediator in Jesus. We thank You for Your great grace and mercy in our lives and for providing a way for us to be saved from our sin. Lord, forgive us for all the wrong and sins we do. We give our lives to You, may You lead us and help us. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen!


