---
week: 32
day: 1
title: 'MOSES - GOD’S TABERNACLE'
bible: 'Exodus 35 : 4-11a; 20-22a; 30-31'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God wanted a special place to; live among the Israelites so He could meet with them & show mercy.
- For children to Discover that God wanted those who were willing to donate & anyone that could make items for the tabernacle to help with the work.
- See that man can only come to God according to God's will and plan.

## 2. Note to Parent
• God commanded Moses to build the tabernacle - a dwelling place - a place to live & a place to worship God. The tabernacle stood in full view of all. Mercy was available to all who would come by faith.
• Many things were needed including gold, silver, bronze, different colored yarns, linen, different animal skins, wood, olive oil, spices, and various stones. Everyone could give materials and the work necessary to complete God's dwelling place. Some were given specific jobs because of their wisdom and skills.
• The people (both men and women)brought what they had and gave it to God. People with special talents have to: work very hard to build the tabernacle. They did have some clothing and articles of silver and gold that the Egyptians had given them just before they left Egypt. The Israelites willingly committed themselves to the project by offering their goods & services.
• Soon there is more than enough materials for them to do what God had asked them. The people had to stop bringing their gifts and offerings.
• Because Moses and the Israelites did everything the way God instructed them. God came to live in the center of the Israelites' camp in the most holy place of the tabernacle. --- The glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle.
• The Israelites could now come to God in the way that He; had taught them

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for when You want something done, You give specific instructions. Thank You for Your word, The Bible which we can learn more about Your love and care for us. Bless our time as we study together. In Jesus' name. Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
2 Corinthians 9:7 "Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not re- luctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver."(ESV)

## 5. Story Opening
How do we give to God? What special gifts could you give to God?


## 6. Story Background
God has a reason for everything He says and does. When He wants some- thing done, He gives specific instruc- tions. We may not understand why He asks people to do things a certain way, but that is when we trust that God knows best. God wants to be with His people and has given Moses the plans for a place where that can happen.


## 7. Bible Story
Read the following verses: Exodus 35:4-11a; 20-22a; 30-31; 36:3-7. You may prepare pictures or props as you tell the story. A summarized version is also available to read to your child/children.

## 8. Story Retell
Stack Cups: For this activity you will need a flat surface and 5-10 plastic or paper cups or any plastic containers you have at home. The goal is to build or stack cups to make a tower. Each family member will take turn in placing a part of the cup tower and try to make it as high and as sturdy as they can. This is to illustrate that God's people worked together to complete the Tab- ernacle Tent & furniture. You can make the activity harder by having time limit.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Where did the material to build the tabernacle come from?
2. Why did God have the Israelites build the tabernacle?
3. What are somethings that you can share or give to the Lord or others? How can you practice the same kind of generosity that led the Israelites to willingly give their possessions, talents, and time for the work of God?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank you for the example of the Israelites, that we too should obey You and worship you. Please help me to use the gifts and things You gave me to serve You and be a blessing to others. In Jesus' name. Amen!


## Summarized version of the Bible Story:
Use the story summary below. Tell the story through the eyes of Moses.

I have been with God and He gave me many instructions, including how to build a tabernacle - a home -for God Himself to dwell. Many things were needed including gold, silver, bronze, different colored yarns, linen, different animal skins, wood, olive oil, spices, and various stones.

So I gathered all of God's people and invited them to be a part in building this home for God. The craftsman could construct everything the Lord commanded. The women could sew the special clothes that the priests would need to wear.

Everyone could give materials and the work necessary to complete God's home. Everyone listened and then went home to prepare their gifts. For those that wanted to give, they brought to the Lord what had been stirred in their hearts to give. (Some were given specific jobs because of their wisdom and skills.) Soon the craftsmen came to me saying: "We have too much! There is more than enough to do what God has asked of us! Tell the people to stop bringing their gifts and offerings!"

Then the day came when everything was complete! I inspected the building. Everything was completed just as God had commanded. A cloud came and covered the tabernacle. The Lord's glorious presence and His awesome glory filled God's dwelling place among the people.


