---
week: 32
day: 2
title: 'MOSES - GOD’S TABERNACLE'
bible: 'Exodus 35 : 4-11a; 20-22a; 30-31'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn the purpose of the tabernacle or show about God.
- For children to discover that God made a way for sinners to come to Him for mercy.
- For children to understand the necessity of a mediator between God and us, as seen in the example of the Israelites.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
* Everything in the tabernacle had to be built exactly as the Lord told Moses.
* The Tabernacle Tent (Exodus 25:1-9) - was divided into two parts by a curtain/veil:
- The Holy Place or the separate place only priests could go inside
- The Most Holy Place or Holy of Holies - is where God would live. Only the High Priest could go in the Most Holy Place and only one time each year
* The Ark of the Covenant and the Mercy Seat (Exodus 25:10-22) - to be put inside the Most Holy Place where God was to live. It was the most important piece of furniture in the tabernacle. It was a wooden box but it covered on the inside and out with gold.
- The mercy seat was the place where God promised to live with the sinful Israelites and show them mercy.
- The two stone tablets of the 10 commandments were kept inside as well as some manna to remember how God took care of his people
* The Veil (Exodus 26:31-33) - a beautiful curtain (veil) was a divider between the two rooms. This curtain was to remind the Israelites that, because of sin, they were separated from God who is holy and righteous. The brazen altar (Exodus 27:1-2) This altar was made from wood but was covered all over with bronze. Brazen means made of brass. This was the place where the animal sacrifices were made. The sacrifice was a picture of what was necessary for man's sin to be forgiven.
* God chose the priests to be mediators between the nation of Israel and a holy God.
- This was to remind the Israelites that a mediator was necessary for them to approach God.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, We praise You for You are a Holy God. Thank You for wanting to be with Your people and for providing a way for sinful people just like me to come You. In Jesus name, Amen!


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Hebrews 9:22 "Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins." Hebrews 9:22 This verse tells us that there will not be any forgiveness unless something dies, and blood pours out!


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is a special project that you worked on with someone else?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God had a purpose for having the Israelites build a tabernacle. It provided a way for God to live among them (Exodus 25:8). It provided a way for God to show His glory (Exodus 40:34-35). It was a reminder of the separation of a holy God from a sinful people. Because it was the place for sacrificial worship, it provided a way for sinful people to come before a holy God. While performing this sacrificial worship, the Israelites were reminded of who God is, as well as learning new things about Him. Every part of the tabernacle was designed to illustrate God's relationship with His people.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Before reading todays' passage in Exodus 39:32, 42-43; Exodus 40:34-35, make sure you review the last part of the Bible story and explain that this is a continuation of the building of the Lord's Tabernacle. You may also read the summarized version provided in Day 1.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
 Tabernacle Compound - you or another family members show a picture of how the tabernacle tent, each of the tabernacle furniture looked like while also talking about their significance. Afterwards let the children draw a simple map of the Tabernacle compound (see attached sketch) & try to explain their significance


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What happened to the building of the tabernacle?
2. What does the tabernacle show about God? What did you learn about God in our study of the making of the Tabernacle?
3. Because of what you've learned today, would you like to trust in Christ as your Savior, the only Mediator?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You that we do not need to do or offer sacrifices because You did send the promised Savior to be our perfect Sacrifice! Help me to know & trust, Jesus, the Savior. In Jesus' name, Amen!

