---
week: 33
day: 1
title: 'MOSES SENDS SPIES TO THE PROMISE LAND'
bible: 'Number 13:25-33'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to know that GOD is faithful to His promises.
- For children to see that fear is a valid feeling, yet in the midst of our fear we can trust in GOD.
- For children to realize that GOD is continually molding us, and He can make us to be like Joshua and Caleb when: it comes to trusting in HIM.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
As the Israelites, led by Moses, was nearing the land of Canaan, Moses sent out spies before conquering the land. This is the land the LORD is telling them to take over as possession from HIM. This should have been the land they: will settle after long, draining journeys through the wilderness.
- The spies came from each tribe of Israel. Their mission is to gather intelligence on the land's terrain, people, defenses, and productivity. the fact-finding mission took them 40 days to complete.
- The phrase "land flowing with milk and honey" is not limited to the idea of the abundance of cattle that may produce milk, or the bountifulness of bees so that honey could be harvested in mass; nor does it refer only to the abundance of other good things and excellent fruits such as corn, wine, oil, figs, palm trees, pomegranates, and others which are in the land indeed. What is meant by these words is that it is a land of great affluence of all good things in it, for the need and for the delight of the Israelites or those that will live in it.
- The people reacted with fear upon hearing the report about the terrifying size and strength of the inhabitants that is why Caleb silenced them or shut them up as if saying, "That is enough out of you!!" He is calling the people to take the land trusting in the power of God, instead of being afraid.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
 Dear God, Thank You for this special day to study Your Word. Thank you that you are faithful and wants what's best for us. Help us to know and trust You more. In Jesus name we pray, Amen

{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Isaiah 41:10 - Fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Isaiah 41:10a


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Can you tell us of a time when you spied on someone else?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God has promised the Israelites that He will take them to the land he has promised to give them. When they got close, God instructs Moses to send out spies to see the land and who was living there.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Numbers 13:25-33. Tell the story in the first person as though you are one of the 10 spies who thought it was too dangerous to go into the land. Remember to stay biblically accurate.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Arrange in Order
- As part of the preparation, divide the story into 8 parts (or according to how you want to section it) and write or print each part on separate strips or ribbons of paper. (Example: Strip 1- the spies return after 40 days of mis- sion and reported to Moses, Aaron, and the entire congregation of Israel; Strip 2 - This gathering happened in the wilderness of Paran at Kadesh; Strip 3 - They showed the fruits grapes, pomegranates and figs on a pole, de- claring it certainly is a land flowing with milk and honey,...and so on and so forth.) Spread out these strips randomly, making sure the sections are separate indeed.
- In the retell part, ask your children to arrange the strips of stories on the wall according to the right sequence or order of the story. Afterwards, the child reads it loudly to you and others in the group.
*for children who have difficulty read- ing you may instead use pictures

{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Who were the different characters in the story and what did they do?
2. Describe what you felt in hearing the report of the 10 spies about the size and strength of the inhabitants of the land? Why did you feel that way? 3.Have you ever felt scared? Next time you feel scared what do you think would God want you to do?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, How wonderful are Your sto- ries Oh LORD! Indeed, you are true and faithful making Caleb and Joshua cou- rageous to trust in you. Help us to be strong and brave in the different chal- lenges we face. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.


