---
week: 33
day: 2
title: 'MOSES SENDS SPIES TO THE PROMISE LAND'
bible: 'Number 13:25-33'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
For children to know that GOD is faithful to His promises.
- For children to see that fear is a valid feeling, yet in the midst of our fear we can trust in GOD.
- For children to realize that GOD is continually molding us, and He can make us to be like Joshua and Caleb when: it comes to trusting in HIM.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
As the Israelites, led by Moses, was nearing the land of Canaan, Moses sent out spies before conquering the land. This is the land the LORD is telling them to take over as possession from HIM. This should have been the land they: will settle after long, draining journeys through the wilderness.
- The spies came from each tribe of Israel. Their mission is to gather intelligence on the land's terrain, people, defenses, and productivity. the fact-finding mission took them 40 days to complete.
- The phrase "land flowing with milk and honey" is not limited to the idea of the abundance of cattle that may produce milk, or the bountifulness of bees so that honey could be harvested in mass; nor does it refer only to the abundance of other good things and excellent fruits such as corn, wine, oil, figs, palm trees, pomegranates, and others which are in the land indeed. What is meant by these words is that it is a land of great affluence of all good things in it, for the need and for the delight of the Israelites or those that will live in it.
- The people reacted with fear upon hearing the report about the terrifying size and strength of the inhabitants that is why Caleb silenced them or shut them up as if saying, "That is enough out of you!!" He is calling the people to take the land trusting in the power of God, instead of being afraid.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, We are glad and excited once again to talk about Your Word and seeing Your Almighty Hands at work through the Israelites. Speak and teach us through these amazing and true stories Dear LORD. Continue to mold and make us to who you want us to be, especially when it comes to knowing, loving and serving You. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Isaiah 41:10 - Fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Isaiah 41:10a


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Who is the strongest and biggest person you know? Story Background: Moses has sent out 12 spies who have gone throughout the promised land and have come back to give a report after 40 days of spying the land.


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Moses has sent out 12 spies who have gone throughout the promised land and have come back to give a report after 40 days of spying the land.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Numbers 13:25-33. Tell the story in the first person as though you are one of the 10 spies who thought it was too dangerous to go into the land. Re- member to stay biblically accurate.

{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Eye Spy
- Like the spies in our Bible Story, the children will also experience being spies. Give instructions to your children to look for certain things inside your home. Instead of saying the name of the object describe it to them.
- For example, you would like them to get a spoon. Instead of saying spoon you may say "Eye spy something I use for eating". If they get the correct object right away move to the next object you would like them to find.
- If they are unable to get the item on the first time you describe it, add another description. Example for the spoon you may say "Eye spy something I use for eating and I can eat soup with it."
- Continue until children are able to get the correct object or have found 5 things you have described to them.

{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What did the Israelites see after spying the land that God had promised to them?
2. How should the Israelites have felt and responded to these reports, knowing that they have Almighty God on their side?
3. What are 3 things you have learned about faith and put- ting our whole trust in God thru the response of Caleb in the story?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Študying Your Word is truly satisfying, refreshing, and healing! May this encourage us more to share who You are to our loved ones, friends, and neighbors, and lead them also to trust- ing in YOU as Savior and LORD. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.


