---
week: 34
day: 1
title: 'JOSHUA - JERICHO’S WALL FALL DOWN'
bible: 'Joshua 06:01-16 and 20'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to see that with God nothing is impossible; He is the Almighty GOD doing everything in His own way, and in His own time.
- For children to know that GOD is a God of justice, He hates sin and wickedness, and He will surely execute judgement to unrepentant people.
- For children to learn that obedience is the proof that we; believe and trust in GOD. And GOD is pleased when we do as He says.

## 2. Note to Parent
- In today's Bible Story, we will no longer read about Moses as at this point Moses had died (Deuteronomy 34). Moses has faithfully followed the Lord. He served the Israelites with humility and with reverence to the Lord. In verse 9 of Deuteronomy 34, you will read of the next leader the Lord has chosen to lead the Israelites to the Promise Land.
- Jericho and its walls have been standing for thousands of years even before Joshua. The walls have been fortified; or strengthened. They stand 25 feet high and 20 feet thick.: Jericho was a symbol of military power and strength- the Canaanites (the people occupying the Promise Land) considered it invincible. Yet truly God displayed His power: and might being far beyond human capacity and comprehension when He gave instructions to Joshua. God did not: give a battle tactic, instead He gave specific instructions that meant that the battle is His and under His control.
- During the 13 days of going around Jericho, the Israelites may have not seen any effect of their labor to the walls yet they continue trusting in GOD. We will learn here: the lesson on waiting upon the LORD.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank you for this new day, for bringing us together to focus our attention again to Your Word. Help us to remember and understand our Bible Story today. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Joshua 1:9-9 Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened, and do not be dismayed, for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go. Joshua 1:9b

## 5. Story Opening
What is something really silly or funny that you have done?

## 6. Story Background
In our Bible Story today we will meet Joshua. Moses has now died and God has strengthened Joshua as He was with Moses. Joshua is now leading the Israelites and God has promised that they will go into the Promised Land. They were able to miraculously cross through the Jordan River on dry ground just like the people had crossed through the Red Sea.
## 7. Bible Story
 Read Joshua 6:1-16. Tell the story and on each day have the children stand up and walk in a circle and when they are done, they are to yell out "Day One!" Have them continue till they get to day seven. Here they walk in a circle seven times and at the end of the seventh round, they yell out "Hallelujah!"
## 8. Story Retell
 Comic Štrip
- Give each child a sheet of paper. Have them fold it in half, then fold that half again and then a third time. When you open the paper, there should be 8 boxes on the paper. For each scene or action in the Bible story, have each child draw a simple picture or object in each box in the order that it happens in the story. Let your child or children retell the story to by using their comic strips.
## 9. Story Questions
1. How did the story describe God's relationship with the Joshua and the Israelites?
2. Could you imagine yourself being there with the Israelites marching in silence, only hearing the sounds of their footsteps and the horns? How do you think does it feel being there?
3. Because of today's story, how might you live differently?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, We are amazed and awed to see by faith Your Mighty Hand in making Jericho fall. Teach and mold us to be obedient to You every day! Forgive us when we doubt You or try to do things our own way. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.


