---
week: 34
day: 2
title: 'JOSHUA - JERICHO’S WALL FALL DOWN'
bible: 'Joshua 06:01-16 and 20'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to see that with God nothing is impossible; He is the Almighty GOD doing everything in His own way, and in His own time.
- For children to know that GOD is a God of justice, He hates sin and wickedness, and He will surely execute judgement to unrepentant people.
- For children to learn that obedience is the proof that we; believe and trust in GOD. And GOD is pleased when we do: as He says.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- In today's Bible Story, we will no longer read about Moses as at this point Moses had died (Deuteronomy 34). Moses has faithfully followed the Lord. He served the Is- raelites with humility and with reverence to the Lord. In verse 9 of Deuteronomy 34, you will read of the next leader the Lord has chosen to lead the Israelites to the Promise Land.
- Jericho and its walls have been standing for thousands of years even before Joshua. The walls have been fortified: or strengthened. They stand 25 feet high and 20 feet thick. Jericho was a symbol of military power and strength the Canaanites (the people occupying the Promise Land) considered it invincible. Yet truly God displayed His power and might being far beyond human capacity and comprehension when He gave instructions to Joshua. God did not: give a battle tactic, instead He gave specific instructions that meant that the battle is His and under His control.
- During the 13 days of going around Jericho, the Israelites may have not seen any effect of their labor to the walls yet they continue trusting in GOD. We will learn here: the lesson on waiting upon the LORD.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, We praise You for being with us and for being faithful to us. Open our hearts LORD to respond with wor- ship and obedience. Guide us as we study the Bible. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Joshua 1:9-9 Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened, and do not be dis- mayed, for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go. Joshua 1:9b


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
 Can you tell us of a time that you did a chore that seemed really hard and it ended up being really easy?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
As Joshua is approaching Jericho, he meets the commander of the Lord's army. Joshua falls on his face to worship him and is instructed to take off his sandals because he is standing on Holy Ground. Then, he gives Joshua the instructions about how he will be able to conquer this large city with huge walls around it.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Joshua 6:1-16 and 20. Do the same actions as before. This time, add in the sound of the blowing of the horns. Let kids make loud noises each time they circle the city of Jericho, and then the last time, they add in the shout of "Hallelujah!"


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Hand Motions - Go back through the Bible story and have them come up with different hand motions that would help them remember each part of the story. Keep going back through the story adding more hand motions until the story is retold.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. How did the Israelites respond to the God's instructions? Did they follow or not?
2. Why do you think God put this story in the Bible?
3. What have learned about GOD from the story?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, We praise You for being our Mighty, Loving God who know everything. Help us to trust and obey You even when we are in difficult situations. Help us to be thankful in everything You do in our lives. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.

