---
week: 35
day: 1
title: 'GOD CHOOSES GIDEON'
bible: 'Judges 6:1-2 and 11-24'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God uses ordinary people to do extraordinary things.
- For children to learn that when God calls us to do something, He will surely equip us to be successful.
- For children to understand that God created each of us for a purpose. He has given each of us skills and talents, and He knows how we should use them.

## 2. Note to Parent
- The Book of Judges records about 300 years of Israel's history and shows the deterioration of the nation of Israel. The Israelites failed because they turned from God. God revealed this process of deterioration to warn all people in every time. To bring them back to Himself, God disciplined His people by allowing them to fall under the control and domination of their enemies. God designed it to bring the Israelites back to a consciousness of sin and their need for God.
- When the Israelites "cried out" to Yahweh in repentance, God heard their cry and delivered them mercifully by raising up a judge. In almost every case, God used one single individual to change the whole course of history in Israel. God raised up the right, perfectly appropriate person, whom He individually prepared to meet the hopeless or disastrous situation in each case. Deliverance came at the right moment. It always came by the right instrument. As a result of this deliverance the people turned back to God.
- For seven years the Midianites ruled over the Israelites, God's people. The Midianites, Amalekites and the people of the East attacked the Israelites and destroyed their crops.: Because of fear the Israelites hid in the mountains. (Judges 6:1-5). The Israelites cried out to God for help. God heard them and sent a prophet to tell them what is their real problem (Judges 6:6-10).
- God called Gideon. He sees his full potential. And He knew that Gideon was capable of this task, even if Gideon doubted himself (Judges 6:11-12). Gideon questions God and doubts his abilities but God reassured him that He is with him (Judges 6:13-16).

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, Thank You for another week that we can read and study Your word. Thank You for Your Word that keeps reminding us that we are special. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
 Isaiah 40:29-31-29 He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength. 30 Even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted; 31 but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. Isaiah 40:31a

## 5. Story Opening
When is a time that you were chosen for a special project or task? How did you feel?

## 6. Story Background
After many years since Joshua and the Israelites entered the promise land, the Israelites started disobeying and forgetting God. Because of this God allowed the Midianites to attack the Israelites. They kept stealing all their crops and animals. The Israelites became very poor because of them. They cried out to the Lord for help. God listened by sending a judge or a person who would remind people of who God is and their responsibility to God.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and study Judges 6:1-2 and 11-24. You may focus first with verses 1-2, 11-18 and continue with the remaining verses on day 2. To make your Bible Story time more interesting, use differ- ent voices for the different characters in the story.

## 8. Story Retell
Act It Out
- Ask your child or children to help act out the story as you are retelling it. You can be part of the retell activity as wellL

## 9. Story Questions
1. Who were the different characters or groups of characters in the story?
2. What do you think was going on in Gideon's heart and mind in this story?
3. God's big story is not finished yet. How do you think God wants you to have a part in His story?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for being there for us. Thank You for giving us strength when we are weak. Help us to accomplish the tasks You would want us to do. Help us be a blessing to others. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


