---
week: 35
day: 2
title: 'GOD CHOOSES GIDEON'
bible: 'Judges 6:1-2 and 11-24'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God uses ordinary people to do extraordinary things.
- For children to learn that when God calls us to do something, He will surely equip us to be successful.
- For children to understand that God created each of us for a purpose. He has given each of us skills and talents, and He knows how we should use them.

## 2. Note to Parent
- The Book of Judges records about 300 years of Israel's history and shows the deterioration of the nation of Israel: The Israelites failed because they turned from God. God revealed this process of deterioration to warn all people in every time. To bring them back to Himself, God disciplined His people by allowing them to fall under the control and domination of their enemies. God designed it to bring the Israelites back to a consciousness of sin and their need for God.
- When the Israelites "cried out" to Yahweh in repentance, God heard their cry and delivered them mercifully by raising up a judge. In almost every case, God used one single individual to change the whole course of history in Israel. God raised up the right, perfectly appropriate person, whom He individually prepared to meet the hopeless or disastrous situation in each case. Deliverance came at the right moment. It always came by the right instrument. As a result of this deliverance the people turned back to God.
- For seven years the Midianites ruled over the Israelites, God's people. The Midianites, Amalekites and the people of the East attacked the Israelites and destroyed their crops.Because of fear the Israelites hid in the mountains. (Judges 6:1-5). The Israelites cried out to God for help. God heard them and sent a prophet to tell them what is their real problem (Judges 6:6-10).
- God called Gideon. He sees his full potential. And He knew that Gideon was capable of this task, even if Gideon doubted himself (Judges 6:11-12). Gideon questions God and doubts his abilities but God reassured him that He is with him (Judges 6:13-16).

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for continuously renewing our strength every day. Thank You for guiding us as we con- tinue to study Your Word. Help us to fully understand Your word today. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Isaiah 40:29-31- 29 He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength. 30 Even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted; 31 but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. Isaiah 40:31a

## 5. Story Opening
What is something that would be almost impossible to do, Why?

## 6. Story Background
The Jewish people are in the Promised Land and have to fight to get the land that God had promised them. God continually uses different people to join Him in His work. Some are strong and some don't feel very strong. Some are brave, some are not. Let's see what kind of person God uses to accomplish His work.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and study Judges 6:1-2 and 11-24. You may focus on verses 19-24. Make sure to review the earlier verses. To make your Bible Story time more interesting, use different voices for the different characters in the story.

## 8. Story Retell
Catch and Own a Corner
- For this retell activity, choose a place that has enough space to move around.
- To review the Bible story, assign a storyteller, who will stand in the middle. The parent or guardian will be the first storyteller. Then the children will stay in corners, you can also assign spots to stand on.
- The storyteller will try to exchange places after he or she is finish telling one part of the story. The person who was not able to secure a corner will be the next one to continue the story until it is finish.
- You may help out your child if they forget or miss a part of the story.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How did God remove Gideon's fear and show power?
2. In what ways are we also like Gideon? In what ways are we different?
3. Because of today's story, what difference might this make in how you love and serve Him?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, thanks for today's story. Just like Gideon, we know that you also choose us to be part of your wonderful plan. help us to discover our skill and talent that we can use it for Your Glory. Give us the strength to obey and trust You. In Jesus name. We pray. Amen


