---
week: 36
day: 1
title: 'GODEON DEFEATS THE ENEMY'
bible: 'Judges 7:1-7'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that when LORD God asks us to do: something for Him, he will surely help us to accomplish in His own special way.
- For children to know that impossible things are possi- ble through the LORD God.
- For children to understand that we achieve victories all because of the LORD God.

## 2. Note to Parent
*God displays His power through Gideon's army (Judges 7:1-3).
- Gideon was able to gather about 32,000 men to join him in the battle. The LORD God reduced Gideon's army and told him to tell all who were fearful and trembling to return home and hurry away from Mount Gilead. 22,000 of the people returned and 10,000 remained.
- The people are still too many for the LORD to use (Judges 7:4-7). The LORD God reduced it from 10,000 to 300 men through a particular and unusual test. He did this because 10,000 were still too many for His purpose.
* In summary, The LORD did not want or need that many men to fight the battle. He was going to fight the battle for: them. He did not want them to think that they were winning the battle in their own strength. He wanted them to know that the battle would be won in His power.
* The same God who worked through Gideon and His army is the same God who give us strength when we are weak, hope when we are down, forgiveness when we sin, and love and grace that is undeserved.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, We praise and thank You for giving us the op- portunity to know You more through our Weekly Bible Lesson. Guide us as we continue to learn more about You in the life of Gideon. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Ephesians 2:8-9 8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast. Ephesians 2:8a
Grace God giving me a free gift I don't deserve
Saved - not being punished for my sin
Faith - trusting what Christ has done to save me from my sin Works good things I do
Boast - brag
## 5. Story Opening
What has been your greatest victory?

## 6. Story Background
Gideon wanted to make sure that God wanted him to fight against the Midianites. He asked several times for the Lord to confirm what He wanted. One thing Gideon asked was for the ground to be dry and his fleece on the ground to be wet. Then the next night, he asked God to do the opposite to make his fleece dry and the ground wet. God showed Gideon that he was the man God would use to defeat the Midianites.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and study Judges 7:1-7. You may focus first with verses 1-3. As you tell the story act it out for children to better understand and remember the Bible story.

## 8. Story Retell
Draw as You Tell the Story - Draw the scenes as you tell the story in a paper or a blackboard. Reminder, before you teach the story be sure to plan out the parts or "scenes" you want to draw. Keep your plan simple and be minimalistic. Do not add to the truth of the Bible to be "cute". If you get carried away by details of a picture then you are probably losing focus of what the lesson is actually about.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How did God make Gideon's army smaller? How many were left when God reduced the army?
2. What do you think was going on in Gideon's heart and mind in this story?
3. What did you learn about being a follower of God from this story?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, We praise and thank You for the life of Gideon. Thank You for re- minding us that we are victorious because of You. Guide us as we trust in You. Help us to listen and obey to Your instructions so that we will be victories like Gideon and his army. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

