---
week: 36
day: 2
title: 'GODEON DEFEATS THE ENEMY'
bible: 'Judges 7:1-7'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that when LORD God asks us to do something for Him, he will surely help us to accomplish it in His own special way.
- For children to know that impossible things are possi- ble through the LORD God.
- For children to understand that we achieve victories all because of the LORD God.
## 2. Note to Parent
* God displays His power through Gideon's army (Judges 7:1-3).
- Gideon was able to gather about 32,000 men to join him in the battle. The LORD God reduced Gideon's army and told him to tell all who were fearful and trembling to return home and hurry away from Mount Gilead. 22,000 of: the people returned and 10,000 remained.
- The people are still too many for the LORD to use (Judges 7:4-7). The LORD God reduced it from 10,000 to 300 men through a particular and unusual test. He did this be- cause 10,000 were still too many for His purpose.
* In summary, The LORD did not want or need that many men to fight the battle. He was going to fight the battle for: them. He did not want them to think that they were win- ning the battle in their own strength. He wanted them to know that the battle would be won in His power.
* The same God who worked through Gideon and His army is the same God who give us strength when we are weak, hope when we are down, forgiveness when we sin, and love and grace that is undeserved.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, We praise and thank You for everything that You have done in our lives. Thank You for keeping us safe for the past days, Help us to understand Your Word as we continue our lesson for today. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Ephesians 2:8-9-8 For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, 9 not a result of works, so that no one may boast. Ephesians 2:8a Grace
- God giving me a free gift I don't deserve
Saved - not being punished for my sin
Faith - trusting what Christ has done to save me from my sin
Works - good things I do
Boast - brag

## 5. Story Opening
What is something that just seems impossible for you to do today?

## 6. Story Background
God had a plan with very specific in- structions on how Gideon would beat the Midianites. When God gives a plan, it is important to follow it exactly.

## 7. Bible Story
 Read and study Judges 7:1-7. You may focus with verses 4-7. As you tell the story act it out for children to better understand and remember the Bible story.

## 8. Story Retell
Draw and Tell (the children draw their own visual aids) - Before story time plan how you will divide the story into parts or "scenes" [You can also base it in your "Draw as You Tell the Story" material]. Mark off that many numbered squares (or any shapes) on a paper so that children will be able to draw the appropriate number of scenes. As you tell the story, ask the children to draw something in each box. You may use any paper. For younger children bigger spaces to draw on would be better.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What did you learn about Gideon's re- lationship with God from this story?
2. What surprised you or amazed you about today's story?
3. God's big story is not finished yet. How do you think God wants you to have a part in His story?

## 10. Closing Prayer
Dear God, We praise and thank You for all the things we have learned today. We know that with You nothing is impossible. Guide us as we continue to study more about Your Word and help us to learn more about Your plans in our lives. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

