---
week: 37
day: 1
title: 'SAMSON LOSSES STRENGTH'
bible: 'Jdges 13:1-5, 24 and 16:4-5, 15-20'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to know that God works with and through all types of different individuals to accomplish His purposes
- For children to learn that the true source of our strength is from God.
- For children to understand that our choices & behavior affect those around us


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- Gideon led Israel against the Midianites, but after he died, Israel again forgot about God and began to worship idols. This time God allowed the Philistines to take over Israel for 40 years. Samson was chosen by God to begin the deliverance of Israel from the hands of the Philistines. Samson was to be set apart for God as a Nazirite (meaning devoted or consecrated "to God") from birth to the day of his death. This vow of separation included abstaining from fermented drink, refraining from cutting his hair & avoiding contact with dead bodies (Judges 13:4-5; 7).

- God blessed Samson and made him really strong. Samson was able to use his physical strength many times: to protect himself and to fight against the Philistines (Judges 14:5-6; 19; 15:4-8; 14-15; 16:2-3; 9; 12; 14). Samson served as a judge in Israel for twenty years (Judges 15:20). Samson's strength was not actually in his hair but a supernatural enablement from the Spirit of God (Judges 13:25; 14:6; 19; 15:14). Samson became too proud. He believed in his own strength more than he believed in God, who gave him his strength. He had a bad temper, and dis- obeyed God. But God still used him and ultimately, he brought glory to God.

- Samson gave his life so that he could defeat the Philistines and the Israelites could be freed (Judges 16:29-30) In some ways Samson's story reminds us of Jesus. Jesus also died for us. He gave His very life so that our sin could be forgiven and we could have eternal life with God.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
 Dear God, Thank you that we can learn about Your strength today. Thank You that You are all-powerful and all-knowing. Help us to trust in You always. In Jesus' name! Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Judges 16:20 When he awoke from his sleep, he said, I will escape as I did before and shake myself free. But he did not know that the Lord had left him" Judges 16:20


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Who is someone strong that you know? Why is he or she strong?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
After Gideon, the Israelites again forgot God and started disobeying God. Because of this, God allowed Israel to be ruled over by the Philistines. During this time, God raised up Samson, to be set apart and to remind the Israelites of God and God's might. Samson grew to be very strong.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read Judges 13;1-5, 24, as you read you may act while reading the Bible passage to engage your child with God's Word


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Back and Forth In this activity, you involve your child/children in retelling the story. You start by sharing the first few happenings of the Bible story according to the Bible. Then your child shares the next part that happened and so on until the story is completed. You may include props to make it more fun!


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What happened to the Israelites in our Bible story?
2. Who was God going to use to rescue Israel?
3. How do you think did God feel when the Israelites continued to forget and disobey Him?
4. What are some of the things you can do to help you make the right choices & how can you use the strength God gives you to help others?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You that You remind us that You know each of us and have special plans for us. Please help us to make the right choices and to use our strength for You glory. In Jesus' name, Amen.

