---
week: 37
day: 2
title: 'SAMSON LOSSES STRENGTH'
bible: 'Jdges 13:1-5, 24 and 16:4-5, 15-20'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God works with and through all types of different individuals to accomplish His purposes.
- For children to learn that the true source of our strength is from God.
- For children to understand that our choices & behavior affect those around us.

## 2. Note to Parent
- Gideon led Israel against the Midianites, but after he died, Israel again forgot about God and began to worship idols. This time God allowed the Philistines to take over Israel for 40 years. Samson was chosen by God to begin the deliverance of Israel from the hands of the Philistines. Samson was to be set apart for God as a Nazirite (meaning devoted or consecrated "to God") from birth to the day of his death. This vow of separation included abstaining from fermented drink, refraining from cutting his hair & avoiding contact with dead bodies (Judges 13:4-5; 7).
- God blessed Samson and made him really strong. Samson was able to use his physical strength many times to protect himself and to fight against the Philistines (Judges 14:5-6; 19; 15:4-8; 14-15; 16:2-3; 9; 12; 14). Samson served as a judge in Israel for twenty years (Judges 15:20). Samson's strength was not actually in his hair but a supernatural enablement from the Spirit of God (Judges:  13:25; 14:6; 19; 15:14). Samson became too proud. He believed in his own strength more than he believed in God, who gave him his strength. He had a bad temper, and dis obeyed God. But God still used him and ultimately, he brought glory to God.

- Samson gave his life so that he could defeat the Philistines and the Israelites could be freed (Judges 16:29-30) In some ways Samson's story reminds us of Jesus. Jesus also died for us. He gave His very life so that our sin could: be forgiven and we could have eternal life with God.

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, Thank You that we can learn today how You work with people who make mistakes. We are sorry for times that we do things that are not pleasing to You. Help us to always trust and obey in You. In Jesus' name! Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Judges 16:20 When he awoke from his sleep, he said, I will escape as I did before and shake myself free. But he did not know that the Lord had left him" Judges 16:20

## 5. Story Opening
Think of a time you did something wrong? How did it feel?

## 6. Story Background
The Philistines hated Samson so they tried to find a way to destroy him. Samson fell in love with a woman named Delilah. They offered Delilah a huge amount of money to find out the secret of Samson's strength. Delilah accepted the bribe to ask Samson what made him so strong. Three times Delilah asks Samson to tell her the secret of his strength & three times he gave her false answers. After her first three betrayals, Samson stays with Delilah several more days or even weeks. Delilah did what Samson's wife had done earlier - she pressures him to tell her his secret. She continued to nag him. She used her best tricks. Delilah told Samson he would tell her his secret if Bible Story: he truly loved her. Samson did not learn from his previous mistakes. Finally, he told her everything.

## 7. Bible Story
 Read Judges 16:4-5, 15-20, as you read you may act and use props while reading the Bible passage to engage your child with God's Word

## 8. Story Retell
Thumb Wrestling: To retell the story, divide into two teams, this may include you and other family members. Two players from the same team face each other & each holds out their left hand or right hand in a "thumbs up" gripping hands with thumbs still up. Players use their thumb to try and pin down the opponent's thumb. Team members thumb wrestle against each team member to determine the best thumb wrestler on their team. Each team member who losses will have to recite a part of the story until the story is told.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What could have Samson done better to rule over the Israelites if he chose to do what was right?
2. Despite his sinful life, Samson was mentioned as a man of faith in Hebrews 11:34. How did God use Samson for His glory & for the good of His people? (Judges 16:29-30)
3. How does today's Bible story fit into God's greater plan of redemption?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, Thank You for the reminder from the life of Samson. Help us to obey You. Please help us to recognize that Jesus gave up His life to destroy our biggest enemy sin. In Jesus' name, Amen.



