---
week: 38
day: 1
title: 'GOD CALLS OUT TO SAMUEL'
bible: '1 Samuel 3:1-10 ; 19-21'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God providentially and individually guided the lives of chosen people such as Hannah & Samuel
- For children to understand that when we follow God's instructions and help others, we are serving the Lord.
- For children to learn the importance of listening to God

## 2. Note to Parent
Samuel came on the scene at the end of the time of the judges of Israel. By this time, the nation of Israel contin- ued on sinning against God and choosing to do what they wanted. It was at this time that Samuel was placed under the care and training of Eli. Eli, was the high priest and judge of Israel at that time (1 Samuel 1:9; 4:18). Despite this, his sons were corrupt (1 Sam 2:12-17) and have abused their positions as priests. God declares that He will choose a new priest for Israel from outside Eli's family, for that reason, God will raise up another one instead.
- While under the care of Eli, Samuel was taught about God and His instructions. As a child Samuel was also given light duties around the tabernacle, such as opening its doors (1 Samuel 2:18; 3:15). Eli (the High Priest) was now old, and his eyesight was failing, so he needed Samuel to be near to help him.
- During this time, God had not spoken directly to anyone for many years because of the willful disobedience of Israel. Samuel's encounter was a first after many years.
- As a child, Samuel was ministering to the Lord in the presence of Eli (I Samuel 2:11, 18). He served the Lord as long as he lived. He was a Priest, Judge, and a Prophet. He faithfully served God and the nation of Israel as it changed over from the time of judges to the rule of kings.
- In I Samuel 2:35 God promises to send a faithful priest, one who will do God's will. This verse refers to a human priest named Zadok (1 Kings 1:38-45). But ultimately it points to God's faithful High Priest Jesus. Jesus shed His blood on the cross and His death was the final sacrifice for all sins. (Heb. 7:23-28). After His death God raised Jesus from the dead He became our Great High priest. He is seated at the right hand of God and always lives to make intercession for believers. (Heb. 7:25)

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You that no matter how old or young we are, we can be a worker, helper for You. Help us to listen to You always and be a blessing to others. In Jesus name! Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
1 Samuel 3:10 And the Lord came & stood, calling as at other times, "Samuel! Samuel!" And Samuel said, "speak, for your servant hears" *Memory verse note: Eli discerned that Samuel was being addressed by the Lord so he advised him to submit him- self to whatever the Lord would have him to do or to give a respectful atten- tion to the message.

## 5. Story Opening
What are some of your favorite sounds? Example: the sound of birds chirping

## 6. Story Background
 Samuel's mother Hannah, could not have children, so she prayed and asked God to give her a son. She promised God that if He would bless her with a son, she would give him back to the LORD to serve Him all the days of his life, God gave Hannah the son she asked for and she kept her promise to God. When the boy was old enough, she took him to the temple and presented him to Eli the priest. So Samuel served in the temple under Eli.

## 7. Bible Story
Read & Tell the Story found 1 Samuel 3:1-6. You may use props like a blanket or mat when telling the story. You may also tell the story in the perspective of Samuel, as written in the Bible.

## 8. Story Retell
Sleeping Mats 1: Children lie down on "sleeping mats" (this may be a blanket, mat, towel, or pillow) and pretend to sleep. Call each child by name. The named child responds by sitting up and saying the first part of the story, the second child to be called tells the next part of the story. Repeat until the whole story have been told. You and other family members may join the activity.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Who were the different characters or groups of charac- ters in the story?
2. Do you think when we obey our parents God is pleased? Why or why not? 3.How can you be God's helper this week?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, We are never too young enough to serve You, please teach us how to do so. Help us to grow in love and patience with the people You have blessed us with. In Jesus' name! Amen!


