---
week: 38
day: 2
title: 'GOD CALLS OUT TO SAMUEL'
bible: '1 Samuel 3:1-10 ; 19-21'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to know that God providentially and individually guided the lives of chosen people such as Hannah & Samuel
- For children to understand that when we follow God's instructions and help others, we are serving the Lord.
- For children to learn the importance of listening to God


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- Samuel came on the scene at the end of the time of the judges of Israel. ued on sinning against God and choosing to do what they wanted. It was at this time that Samuel was placed under the care and training of Eli. Eli, was the high priest and judge of Israel at that time (1 Samuel 1:9; 4:18). Despite this, his sons were corrupt (1 Sam 2:12-17) and have abused their positions as priests. God declares that He will choose a new priest for Israel from outside Eli's family, for that reason, God will raise up another one instead.
- While under the care of Eli, Samuel was taught about God and His instructions. As a child Samuel was also given light duties around the tabernacle, such as opening its doors (1 Samuel 2:18; 3:15). Eli (the High Priest) was now old, and his eyesight was failing, so he needed Samuel to be near to help him.
- During this time, God had not spoken directly to anyone for many years because of the willful disobedience of Israel. Samuel's encounter was a first after many years.
- As a child, Samuel was ministering to the Lord in the presence of Eli (I Samuel 2:11, 18). He served the Lord as long as he lived. He was a Priest, Judge, and a Prophet. He faithfully served God and the nation of Israel as it changed over from the time of judges to the rule of kings.
- In I Samuel 2:35 God promises to send a faithful priest, one who will do God's will. This verse refers to a human priest named Zadok (1 Kings 1:38-45). But ultimately it points to God's faithful High Priest Jesus. Jesus shed His blood on the cross and His death was the final sacrifice for all sins. (Heb. 7:23-28). After His death God raised Jesus from the dead He became our Great High priest. He is seated at the right hand of God and always lives to make intercession for believers. (Heb. 7:25) this time, the nation of Israel contin-


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
- Dear God, Thank You that You listen to us, help us to listen to You. As we study Your word, guide us and teach us how to live for You, like Samuel. In Jesus name! Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
1 Samuel 3:10 And the Lord came & stood, calling as at other times, "Samuel! Samuel!" And Samuel said, "speak, for your servant hears"
*Memory verse note: Eli discerned that Samuel was being addressed by the Lord so he advised him to submit himself to whatever the Lord would have him to do or to give a respectful attention to the message.


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What are some of the ways you can listen to God's words in the Bible?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God had not spoken directly to anyone for many years. At other times in history, God often gave messages to His prophets in visions. But at the time when Samuel was growing up, He did not give any such messages. Samuel had never received any direct contact from the Lord. Samuel had learned about the Lord from Eli and his parents, but he had not actually heard the voice of God. When God called Samuel, he thought it was Eli calling.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read & Tell the Story: 1 Samuel 3:7-10, 19-21. You may use props like a blanket or mat when telling the story. You may also tell the story in the perspective of Samuel, as written in the Bible


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Sleeping Mats 2: Let all the children lie down on sleeping mats. Have a family member playing the Lord's part stand & call out the names of each child, twice. Named child responds by sitting up & saying "Speak, for your servant hears"


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Who was really calling Samuel?
2. Is it possible for you to be learning about God yet not really know Him (in a personal way)?
3. How can you listen to God & know Him in a personal relationship?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Perhaps You are calling us or have something special for us to do. When You call, help us to listen and answer "speak, Lord, your servant is listening." In Jesus' name! Amen


