---
week: 39
day: 1
title: 'KING SAUL DISOBEYS GOD'
bible: '1 Samuel 15 : 17 -23'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God is pleased when we obey Him.
- For children to understand that when we obey God, we should completely obey Him because it is an expression of our love for Him. Incomplete obedience is disobedience.
- For children to see that the love of wealth and possessions, and money, brings destruction

## 2. Note to Parent
- As seen in past lessons, God has chosen Israel to be a nation that is His, a nation that is setapart, and a nation that has Him as their King. He sent prophets to act as messengers to the nation of Israel. Samuel was a prophet whom they listened to, but as the prophet aged Israel changed and wanted to be like other nations. They wanted: to do things their way instead of God's wise plans. Israel wanted an earthly king like the surrounding nations.
- Israel demanded an earthly king despite the warnings from Samuel (1 Samuel 8:10-22). God gave Israel what they wanted; many kings ruled over them. Israel thought that if they had a king like the other nations, they would not have to obey God. A few of these kings believed God and trusted in Him, but, most of them did not.
- God chose Saul. Saul is from the tribe of Benjamin, the least among the tribes of Israel (1 Samuel 9:21). Though great in appearance (1 Samuel 9:2), Saul was not the answer to Israel's hard hearts and the warnings mentioned by Samuel is seen and experienced by the nation.
- Whatever God commands, we are to fully obey Him because of His wisdom and plans for our lives. King Saul was commanded by God to destroy the Amalekites, a tribe known for attacking and terrorizing nations. They deceitfully and offensively attacked the Israelites as they entered the promised land. God knew that the Amalekites were corrupt and idolatrous and their presence among Israel will cause trouble and sin to inhabit the nation. The only way to protect the Israelites was to destroy the Amalekites along with their possessions and idols.
- Contrary to what God said, King Saul spared Agag the king of the Amalekites as well as other possessions. Agag was displayed as a living trophy of the victory they had against the Amalekites. Saul set up a monument of his victory, at Carmel, a city in the mountains of Judah, seeking his honor more than the honor of God. He set up this place for himself, boasting of his victory instead of being sorry for his failure to do the work God has commanded.

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God, Thank You for the opportunity to study and learn from the Bible. Open our hearts and minds as we listen and read. Help us to obey You. In Jesus name we pray, Amen

## 4. Memory Verse:
Proverbs 21:2-3-2 Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the LORD weighs the heart. 3 To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice. Proverbs 21:2

## 5. Story Opening
What do you do when you are in the middle of doing something (playing, eating, watching, or etc.) and one of your parents tell you to do something else?

## 6. Story Background
God's people want to be like everyone else and have a king to rule over them. God agrees to give them what they want and has Samuel anoint a man named Saul. Saul is tall and handsome but he doesn't always make the best choices. I want to define for you a word that is used in the story. It is the word spoil. This does not mean when a piece of food goes bad. It means to take the property of the people you have just conquered.

## 7. Bible Story
 Read and tell the story of I Samuel 15:17-23. You and someone (can be your child) can act as Samuel and King Saul. Read through the passage as if conveying the emotion from the passage.

## 8. Story Retell
Count to Fifty - Slowly count to 50 and see if your child can retell the story before you hit the number 50 (or another number that works for the story). If your child is having a hard time remembering some parts of the story, you may read or explain the story again.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Who were the different characters in the Bible story?
2. What feelings did you have as you heard the story?
3. Upon listening to the story, what have you learned about yourself when it comes to obeying God? What should you do?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, Thank You for Your Word which we can obey. Help us to not just know what we have learned, but help us to obey You fully. Forgive us for times that we choose to do what we like. Help us to know You more. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.



