---
week: 39
day: 2
title: 'KING SAUL DISOBEYS GOD'
bible: '1 Samuel 15 : 17 -23'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God is pleased when we obey Him.
- For children to understand that when we obey God, we should completely obey Him because it is an expression of our love for Him. Incomplete obedience is disobedience.
- For children to see that the love of wealth and possessions, and money, brings destruction
## 2. Note to Parent
- As seen in past lessons, God has chosen Israel to be a nation that is His, a nation that is set-apart, and a nation that has Him as their King. He sent prophets to act as messengers to the nation of Israel. Samuel was a prophet whom they listened to, but as the prophet aged Israel changed and wanted to be like other nations. They wanted: to do things their way instead of God's wise plans. Israel wanted an earthly king like the surrounding nations.
- Israel demanded an earthly king despite the warnings from Samuel (1 Samuel 8:10-22). God gave Israel what they wanted; many kings ruled over them. Israel thought that if they had a king like the other nations, they would not have to obey God. A few of these kings believed God and trusted in Him, but, most of them did not.
- God chose Saul. Saul is from the tribe of Benjamin, the least among the tribes of Israel (1 Samuel 9:21). Though great in appearance (1 Samuel 9:2), Saul was not the answer to Israel's hard hearts and the warnings mentioned by Samuel is seen and experienced by the nation.
- Whatever God commands, we are to fully obey Him because of His wisdom and plans for our lives. King Saul was commanded by God to destroy the Amalekites, a tribe known for attacking and terrorizing nations. They deceitfully and offensively attacked the Israelites as they entered the promised land. God knew that the Amalekites were corrupt and idolatrous and their presence among Israel will cause trouble and sin to inhabit the nation. The only way to protect the Israelites was to destroy the Amalekites along with their possessions and idols.
- Contrary to what God said, King Saul spared Agag the king of the Amalekites as well as other possessions. Agag was displayed as a living trophy of the victory they had against the Amalekites. Saul set up a monument of his victory, at Carmel, a city in the mountains of Judah, seeking his honor more than the honor of God. He set up this place for himself, boasting of his victory instead of being sorry for his failure to do the work God has commanded.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You that You know me and You know what is best for me. Help me to always obey You and to praise You for everything that You do. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Proverbs 21:2-3 2 Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the LORD weighs the heart. 3 To do righteous- ness and justice is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice. Proverbs 21:2

## 5. Story Opening
Finish the sentence: One way in which I obey God is that I...

## 6. Story Background
God designed Israel to be a natiori that is different, a nation that has Him as the perfect King. However, they insisted on being like the other nations. When Saul became king, he chose to do things his own way and for his glory. God was sorrowful that Saul no longer belonged to God, but his own interests. Samuel has to talk to King Saul about the wrong choices he has made.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story of I Samuel 15:17-23. You and someone (can be your child) can act as Samuel and King Saul. Read through the passage as if convey- ing the emotion from the passage.

## 8. Story Retell
Who Said What Get two chairs or assign two spaces to sit or stand on. One space/chair will be for King Saul and the other will be for Samuel. Write down the parts of the conversation from the Bible Story. Do not include the name of who said it. Place all the paper in a container and ask your child to get one and identify who said what. You may play along with you child.

## 9. Story Questions
1. What choices did the people make? What else could they have done? What happened because of the choices they made?
2. What do you feel is really important to God? Is it the same with what King Saul thought was important?
3. In what ways, do you show that you love God by obeying Him? Give at least 4 examples.

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, Thank You that You love us and gave Jesus to take away our sins. Thank You that through this we can know You and obey You more. Help us as we trust in You. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.

