---
week: 40
day: 1
title: 'GOD CHOOSES DAVID'
bible: '1 Samuel 16 : 6-13'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that our Omniscient Creator knows everything about us. He knows our hearts even our deepest secrets.
- For children to understand that God has a special plan for each of us no matter how young we are. God equips and helps us to be more like Christ.

## 2. Note to Parent
- In the preceding lesson, Saul's disobedience to God has caused several consequences, including losing the throne;
- God chose David amongst Jesse's sons. In 1 Samuel 16:7, God reminded Samuel that he does not look at the outward appearance, but the heart faith and character. The Omniscient Creator knows everything about us. He knows: well our hearts even its deepest secrets. A person may appear presentable, full of life, and good outwardly, but is deteriorating inwardly. We normally and naturally base their judgment by looking in the eyes of others, considering their personality, their skills, and achievements, even the seniority of age and priority of birth. But the LORD sees differently looking at our hearts (Luke 16:15).
- Unlike the many other kings of Israel, David truly believed in the Lord and wanted to obey him in everything. King David was also one of God's prophets, inspired by God to record Scripture.
- In the Bible story, David has been anointed or chosen by: God to be the next king. This was done in secret because Saul was still legally the king at the time, but God was preparing David for his future responsibilities. David was later anointed publicly (2 Samuel 2:4, 5:3).

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank you for this day that you have made for us to study Your Word! Help us as we apply what we will be learning. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
1 Samuel 16:7 - But the LORD said to Samuel, "Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the LORD sees not as man sees: man looks on the outward appearance, but the LORD looks on the heart." 1 Samuel 16:7b

## 5. Story Opening
Finish the sentence: One way in which I obey God is that !

## 6. Story Background
Saul made choices that sounded good but were not what God was asking. He continued to disobey and so God is going to choose someone else to be the king. It is not about what he looks like but one who has a heart for Him.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story of I Samuel 16:6-13a. You may make puppets using socks, paper, or other items you have. Have your child/children decorate each puppet to represent the sons of Jesse. Don't forget to make David! Enjoy tell- ing the story together with your child

## 8. Story Retell
Hide and Seek Unlike the game of hide and seek you will not hide yourself, instead get 8 items from the house, it can be your child's things. Write a list of the 8 items and hide the object. Ask your child to find the different items. While your child finds an item, ask him/her to retell a part of the story until all the items are found. If your child is having a hard time remembering the story, read it again or help you child by alternately telling the story.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Who were the different people in the Bible Story?
2. What did you like about the story? Is here anything you didn't like?
3. What does it mean that God looks on the heart? How is it different from how a man chooses which is based on ap- pearance?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, We praise You for being an all-knowing God. Thank You that You see and understand my innermost being. Help me to obey You. May my heart be always for you. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.


