---
week: 40
day: 2
title: 'GOD CHOOSES DAVID'
bible: '1 Samuel 16 : 6-13'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to know that our Omniscient Creator knows everything about us. He knows our hearts even our deepest secrets.
- For children to understand that God has a special plan for each of us no matter how young we are. God equips and helps us to be more like Christ.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- In the preceding lesson, Saul's disobedience to God has caused several consequences, including losing the throne;
- God chose David amongst Jesse's sons. In 1 Samuel 16:7, God reminded Samuel that he does not look at the outward appearance, but the heart faith and character. The Omniscient Creator knows everything about us. He knows: well our hearts even its deepest secrets. A person may appear presentable, full of life, and good outwardly, but deteriorating inwardly. We normally and naturally base their judgment by looking in the eyes of others, considering their personality, their skills, and achievements, even the seniority of age and priority of birth. But the LORD sees differently looking at our hearts (Luke 16:15).
- Unlike the many other kings of Israel, David truly be- lieved in the Lord and wanted to obey him in everything. King David was also one of God's prophets, inspired by God to record Scripture.
- In the Bible story, David has been anointed or chosen by: God to be the next king. This was done in secret because Saul was still legally the king at the time, but God was preparing David for his future responsibilities. David was later anointed publicly (2 Samuel 2:4, 5:3).


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Yours Oh LORD is the glory and honor forever and ever! Thank you for today. Make your Word a lamp unto our feet and a light to our path as we study. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
1 Samuel 16:7- But the LORD said to Samuel, "Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the LORD sees not as man sees: man looks on the outward appearance, but the LORD looks on the heart." 1 Samuel 16:7b


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Share a time when someone made you feel special. Did they give you something or did they do something nice to you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
God tells Samuel to go to Jesse's house because the next king will come from his family. He is to anoint the one that God chooses, not one that the people would pick. David is the young- est son of Jesse. He is a shepherd, which was not a job that anyone wanted.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read and tell the story of I Samuel 16:6-13a. You may make puppets using socks, paper, or other items you have. Have your child/children decorate each puppet to represent the sons of Jesse. Don't forget to make David! Enjoy telling the story together with your child.



{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Pass the Crown
When you say "GO," the family members pass a crown (you can make one or use a hat) around the circle until you say "STOP." The person who has the crown has to say the next part of the story. When you say "GO," they start passing the crown till you say "STOP." Make sure everyone gets a chance to tell a part of the story.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What did you learn about what God is like?
2. How did this story challenge you or encourage you?
3. When God said He looked at people's heart, how does that make you feel? How can you share God's love to others?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, LORD, forgive us for sometimes disobeying You. Cleanse our hearts and make us new Help us to walk and listen to You every moment of our lives, that we may please You every day. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.


