---
week: 41
day: 1
title: 'DAVID DEFEATS GOLIATH'
bible: '1 Samuel 17 : 01-11, 37-50'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to learn that God is with us no matter what situation we are in, He loves us, and our strength comes from Him
- For children to be reminded that when we are scared, we can trust in God and remember His promises that can be found in the Bible
- For children to understand that God is bigger than our fears, we can depend on Him all the time


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
* David
- The youngest of Jesse's eight sons and that he tended his father's sheep (1 Samuel 16:11; 1 Samuel 17:14-15). As a shepherd, David was used to protecting his flock from wild animals that wanted his sheep. Not only was he used: to protecting his flock, but in verse 37 he acknowledges God as the one who protected him and is the same God who will help him defeat Goliath. This shows not only his faith in God, but his understanding that God is all powerful in any and in every situation. o In previous verses, David was King Saul's armor-bearer, a close personal attendant (1 Samuel 16:21). He also played the harp for King Saul, though the king did not know much about him then.
* Goliath
- A giant Philistine warrior from Gath, was over nine feet tall, wore armor weighing 125 pounds, and carried a 15-pound spear (1 Samuel 17:4-7). He taunted the Israelite: army (1 Samuel 17:8-9). With his built and height all of Israel's army were terrified, even Saul who was king and was considered a tall Israelite. In the eyes of people, problems may seem terrifying or tough, but with God there are no problems big enough for His power and might. The same God who delivered the Israelites and equipped David is the same God we can depend on today. He calls for us to surrender our lives and trust in Him. You or your child can do the same. Let God take control of your life and experience great things like David.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Thank You for reminding us that You do not look in our outward appearance but You look in to our hearts. Help us to learn more about David as we continue our lesson today. In Jesus name, Amen!


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Psalm 27:1-2-1 The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? 2 When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Psalm 27:1


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is the bravest thing you have done so far? How did you become brave?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Though David has been anointed to be the next King, he has to wait for God's timing. So, he is still a shepherd boy. Eventually, because he plays the harp so well, he is brought to live with and play the harp for King Saul. The people of Israel are at war with the Philistines. The Philistines decide that there should be one final battle - one of the Israelites against the giant, Goliath. None of the Israelites would fight him except David.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read and study 1 Sarnuel 17 before tell- ing the story to your child. Use a mea- suring tape or wear a really large shirt to help emphasize how big Goliath was and then tell the story from 1 Samuel 17:1-11


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Catch and Own a Corner - The story- teller stands in the middle of a desig- nated space. The parent or guardian will be the first storyteller. Then the children will stay in corners (if there are no corners you can select spaces where children can stand to serve as corners) and will try to exchange places after the storyteller is finish telling one part of the story. The person who was not able to secure a corner will be the next one to stand in the center and continue the story. Repeat this until the story is completely retold. If children are having a hard time you may read the story again or help them remember the next part.



{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What did you learn about David's relationship with God from this story?
2. What do you think was going on in David's heart and mind in this story?
3. Do you want to know God like this? Is there something happening right now in your life where God could help you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You for today's story. Thank You for allowing us to know more about You. Help us to be like David whose strength and courage comes from You. In Jesus name, Amen!


