---
week: 41
day: 2
title: 'DAVID DEFEATS GOLIATH'
bible: '1 Samuel 17 : 01-11, 37-50'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to learn that God is with us no matter what situation we are in, He loves us, and our strength comes from Him
- For children to be reminded that when we are scared, we can trust in God and remember His promises that can be found in the Bible
- For children to understand that God is bigger than our fears, we can depend on Him all the time

## 2. Note to Parent
*David
- The youngest of Jesse's eight sons and that he tended his father's sheep (1 Samuel 16:11; 1 Samuel 17:14-15). As a shepherd, David was used to protecting his flock from wild animals that wanted his sheep. Not only was he used to protecting his flock, but in verse 37 he acknowledges God as the one who protected him and is the same God who will help him defeat Goliath. This shows not only his faith in God, but his understanding that God is all powerful in any and in every situation. o In previous verses, David was King Saul's armor-bearer, a close personal attendant (1 Samuel 16:21). He also played the harp for King Saul, though the king did not know much about him then.
* Goliath
- A giant Philistine warrior from Gath, was over nine feet tall, wore armor weighing 125 pounds, and carried a 15-pound spear (1 Samuel 17:4-7). He taunted the Israelite: army (1 Samuel 17:8-9). With his built and height all of Is- rael's army were terrified, even Saul who was king and was considered a tall Israelite. In the eyes of people, problems may seem terrifying or tough, but with God there are no problems big enough for His power and might. The same God who delivered the Israelites and equipped David is the same God we can depend on today. He calls for us to surrender our lives and trust in Him. You or your child can do the same. Let God take control of your life and experience great things like David.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for loving us unconditionally. Thank You for giving us strength when we are weak. Help us to trust in You especially in times when we are facing problems. In Jesus name. Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 27:1-2-1 The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? 2 When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Psalm 27:1

## 5. Story Opening
Describe something that makes you feel really afraid.

## 6. Story Background
Saul has agreed to let David be the person to fight against Goliath. Saul wanted David to use his armor, but after trying it on, David was not comfortable in it and decided not to wear any armor. Saul said to David as David was about to fight Goliath, "Go, and may the Lord be with you."

## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story from 1 Samuel 17:40-50. Prepare 5 stones to help children visualize how David defeated Goliath.

## 8. Story Retell
Pass the Stones Prepare two small stones or something similar. Put a small mark in one of the stones. Create a circle with the children and then pass the two stones around while reciting the memory verse. The last person who is holding the stone with a mark will begin re-telling the story. Repeat until the whole story is finished.


## 9. Story Questions
1. What choices did David make? What else could he has done? What happened because of the choices he made?
2. In what ways is our situation like David's?
3. God's big story is not finished yet. How do you think God wants you to have a part in His story?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, Thank You for being there with us when we are afraid. We know that You are stronger than anything or anyone. Help us to encourage others to also put their trust in You. In Jesus name, Amen!



