---
week: 42
day: 1
title: 'DAVID BRINGS BACK THE ARK'
bible: '2 Samuel 06 : 15 , 12-15'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For the Children to know that God wants us to trust Him: with the important things in our lives
- For the Children to understand that God wants us to accomplish things according to His ways
- For the Children to learn how to worship the Lord with gladness


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
* In the book of 1 Samuel, David's struggles as he waited to be Israel's next king can be seen. He was a man of faith, waiting for God's perfect time for him to be king. He respected King Saul despite him trying to kill David in several occasions.
* Background to the ark and the mercy seat (Exodus 25:10- 22)
- God told Moses to make a wooden box covered with gold called the ark of the covenant. It was to be put inside the most holy place where God was to live.
- Moses was to make a lid of pure gold called the mercy seat and place it on top of the ark of the covenant.
- They told Moses to place the two tablets of stone, with the Ten Commandments written on them, inside the ark the covenant, under the mercy seat.
* The first attempt failed (2 Samuel 6:1-12)
- They transported the ark on a new cart. But God had specifically commanded that the ark be carried by Levites; (Number 4:15; 7:8-9; Deut. 31:9), using poles placed through rings on the sides of the ark (Ex. 25:14-15;) (2 Samuel 6:3-4)
- David's method is the same that has been used by the world, like the Philistines. Though he was doing the right thing, he was doing it in the wrong way (1 Samuel 6:7-15)
- God struck Uzzah down for touching the ark. Touching the ark was a direct violation of God's law (Num. 4:15) - (2: Samuel 6:6-7).
- David became angry because of the Lord's outbreak. And because of Uzzah's death David was scared, so he left the ark in in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite for 3 months and God blessed him. (2 Samuel 6:8-12).
* The second attempt was successful (2 Samuel 6:13-15)
- This time the ark is carried properly (2 Samuel 6:13; Chronicles 15:12-15).
- David celebrated before the LORD. Joy was a vital part of both worship and celebration (2 Samuel 6:14)


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Thank You for giving us rules to guide and help us. Help us to always remember to follow them in every situation that we are experiencing. As we continue to study the Bible, may we learn more about you with joy. In Jesus name, Amen!


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Psalm 9:10-11-10 And those who know your name put their trust in you, for you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. 11 Sing praises to the Lord, who sits enthroned in Zion! Tell among the peoples his deeds! Psalm 9:11


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is something you have that is really special to you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
The ark of God was very special. It was where God would be when He was with the people. Some enemies of the Israelites captured it and David went to bring it back to Jerusalem.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read and study 2 Samuel 6:1-15. Start telling your child the story by focusing on 2 Samuel 6:1-5. Remind your child of the Bible story when God instructed Moses to build the tabernacle to help remind of the importance of the ark to Israel.



{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Roll and Retell - Prepare a dice or make one. If your child rolls:

{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}

{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}

{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}

{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}

{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}

{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Who were the different characters in the story?
2. What surprised you or amazed you about today's story?
3. From what you learned today, what do you feel God might be saying to you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You that You are a holy God who wants us to obey You completely. Guide us as we listen and obey Your Word. Help us to trust You always. In Jesus name, Amen!


