---
week: 42
day: 2
title: 'DAVID BRINGS BACK THE ARK'
bible: '2 Samuel 06 : 15 , 12-15'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For the Children to know that God wants us to trust Him with the important things in our lives
- For the Children to understand that God wants us to accomplish things according to His ways
- For the Children to learn how to worship the Lord with gladness

## 2. Note to Parent
* In the book of 1 Samuel, David's struggles as he waited to be Israel's next king can be seen. He was a man of faith, waiting for God's perfect time for him to be king. He respected King Saul despite him trying to kill David in several occasions.
* Background to the ark and the mercy seat (Exodus 25:10- 22)
- God told Moses to make a wooden box covered with gold called the ark of the covenant. It was to be put inside the most holy place where God was to live.
- Moses was to make a lid of pure gold called the mercy seat and place it on top of the ark of the covenant.
- They told Moses to place the two tablets of stone, with the Ten Commandments written on them, inside the ark of the covenant, under the mercy seat.
* The first attempt failed (2 Samuel 6:1-12)
- They transported the ark on a new cart. But God had specifically commanded that the ark be carried by Levites (Number 4:15; 7:8-9; Deut. 31:9), using poles placed through rings on the sides of the ark (Ex. 25:14-15;) - (2 Samuel 6:3-4)
- David's method is the same that has been used by the world, like the Philistines. Though he was doing the right thing, he was doing it in the wrong way (1 Samuel 6:7-15)
- God struck Uzzah down for touching the ark. Touching the ark was a direct violation of God's law (Num. 4:15) Samuel 6:6-7).
- David became angry because of the Lord's outbreak. And because of Uzzah's death David was scared, so he left the ark in in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite for 3 months and God blessed him. (2 Samuel 6:8-12).
* The second attempt was successful (2 Samuel 6:13-15)
- This time the ark is carried properly (2 Samuel 6:13; 1 Chronicles 15:12-15).
- David celebrated before the LORD. Joy was a vital part of both worship and celebration (2 Samuel 6:14)

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for Your promises. Thank You for giving us a chance to reflect on the things that we are doing. Help us to do the things that are according to Your ways. In Jesus name. Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 9:10-11 10 And those who know your name put their trust in you, for you, 0 Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. 11 Sing praises to the Lord, who sits enthroned in Zion! Tell among the peoples his deeds! Psalm 9:11

## 5. Story Opening
Share about someone you trust. Why do you trust them so much?

## 6. Story Background
As King, David was a good leader and warrior. He has won many battles and the people highly respect him. God was with David. David did what the Lord commanded.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and study 2 Samuel 6:1-15. Review what happen from 2 Samuel 6:1-5 and continue the story by focusing on 2 Samuel 6:12-15. You may use household items as instruments to join along with the rejoicing depicted in the Bible story.

## 8. Story Retell
Maracas Making Explain that God deserves all glory and praise. He is all powerful, holy, loving, and gracious. We can express our thanks and praise to God in different ways, like David. To make instruments, clean old plastic bottles. Place it with pebbles, beads, or anything small that will fit (be careful of small pieces as choking hazard to children). Decorate the outside of the bottle using any paint or by gluing designs. Shake your maracas and sing songs together.


## 9. Story Questions
1. How does God respond to the people in the story? What does this show us?
2. After hearing the story, how might it change how you view yourself?
3. Because of today's story, what difference might this make in how you love and serve Him?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, Thank You for always being there for us and forgiving us when we do wrong. We trust You with everything. May You continue to give us wisdom and guidance in every decision making whether it is small or big. In Jesus name, Amen!



