---
week: 43
day: 1
title: 'SALOMON ASKED FOR WISDOM'
bible: '1 KingS 3:5 -14'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to learn that true wisdom comes from God
- For children to understand the importance of asking God for wisdom

## 2. Note to Parent
- Israel became a great nation under the kingship of David. He had been king of Israel for forty years (7 years in Hebron & 33 years in Jerusalem (1 Kings 2:10-12). After King David died, Solomon, the son of King David and Bathsheba, became king. Solomon was a young man when he took over the kingdom.
- Early in his reign Solomon went to Gibeon (a high place where the ancient tabernacle & the bronze altar was 2 Chronicles 1:3-6) to offer a great sacrifice to the Lord. These high places had been originally used by idol worshipers. Even though the law of Moses demanded that the: Israelites not use pagan altars for worshipping God, it appears that this was a common practice in Solomon's time.: God had not yet chosen a permanent & exclusive place of worship (1 Kings 3:2).
- I Kings 4:29-30 & 34; 10:23-24 relate what King Solomon: was known for throughout his own country and other nations. He is thought of as the wisest man who ever lived. Solomon was to be the richest & most honored king of his: day. His life may have been shortened, and yet he lived to rule for forty years (I Kings 11:42). In his time, the kingdom: of Israel was richer and more powerful than it had been at any time before or has been since.
- Yet for all his wisdom, Solomon walked away from God and lived a life full of sin. He used his riches and wisdom for his own glory. He loved & married many foreign women who worshiped idols and persuaded Solomon to worship idols also (1 Kings 11:4)
- There is another King who is wisest of all kings, His name is Jesus. He is sinless, the perfect great King, who is always faithful & always knows what is best for us. The source of true wisdom & of gaining wisdom is knowing Him.

## 3. Opening Prayer
 Dear God Thank You for giving us Your Word, the Bible, where we can learn what You have to say & guide us to do the right thing. In Jesus name, Amen

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 111:10a "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom .." Psalm 11:10a

## 5. Story Opening
If you could have any wish come true, what would you ask for?

## 6. Story Background
David has many sons, but the son God chose to succeed him as king was Solomon. The history books tell us that Solomon was only 12 years old when he became king. Just prior to our story, David prays this prayer over his son, Solomon: "I am about to go the way of all the earth. Be strong, and show yourself a man, and keep the charge of the LORD your God, walking in His ways and keeping His statutes, His commandments, His rules, and His testimonies, as it is written in the Law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn" (1 Kings 2:2-3).

## 7. Bible Story
Read 1 Kings 3:5-9 and tell the story from the Bible. You may create puppets to tell the story or have your child act as Solomon while you read the story.


## 8. Story Retell
Questions - recall the story by prompting them with questions to remember the details in the correct order.
1. What did God say to Solomon when He appeared to him in a dream? v5
2. What was Solomon thankful to God for? v6
3. What did Solomon acknowledge in verses 7-8?
4. What did Solomon asked for? V9

## 9. Story Questions
1. Why do you think Solomon asked for wisdom instead of long life, riches, or life of his enemies?
2. How do you think did Solomon feel being a young king leading a nation?
3. Like Solomon do you think that you need to be wise? In what area of your life & why?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God Thank You that You know everything and have a plan and purpose for all things. Help us to trust Your wisdom and also please give us wisdom, so we use it to glorify You & serve others. Help us to use this gift properly throughout our lives. In Jesus' name, Amen


