---
week: 43
day: 2
title: 'SALOMON ASKED FOR WISDOM'
bible: '1 KingS 3:5 -14'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to learn that true wisdom comes from God
- For children to understand the importance of asking God for wisdom

## 2. Note to Parent
- Israel became a great nation under the kingship of David. He had been king of Israel for forty years (7 years in Hebron & 33 years in Jerusalem (1 Kings 2:10-12). After King David died, Solomon, the son of King David and Bathsheba, became king. Solomon was a young man when he took over the kingdom.
- Early in his reign Solomon went to Gibeon (a high place where the ancient tabernacle & the bronze altar was - 2 Chronicles 1:3-6) to offer a great sacrifice to the Lord. These high places had been originally used by idol worshipers. Even though the law of Moses demanded that the: Israelites not use pagan altars for worshipping God, it appears that this was a common practice in Solomon's time. God had not yet chosen a permanent & exclusive place of worship (1 Kings 3:2).
- I Kings 4:29-30 & 34; 10:23-24 relate what King Solomon: was known for throughout his own country and other nations. He is thought of as the wisest man who ever lived. Solomon was to be the richest & most honored king of his: day. His life may have been shortened, and yet he lived to rule for forty years (I Kings 11:42). In his time, the kingdom: of Israel was richer and more powerful than it had been at any time before or has been since.
- Yet for all his wisdom, Solomon walked away from God and lived a life full of sin. He used his riches and wisdom for his own glory. He loved & married many foreign women who worshiped idols and persuaded Solomon to worship idols also (1 Kings 11:4)
- There is another King who is wisest of all kings, His name is Jesus. He is sinless, the perfect great King, who is always faithful & always knows what is best for us. The source of true wisdom & of gaining wisdom is knowing Him.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank you God that you have given us the chance to be wise and to learn what wisdom is from Your Word – the Bible. In Jesus name. Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 111:10a "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom..." Psalm 11:10a

## 5. Story Opening
If you could ask God to let you know about something, it would be...

## 6. Story Background
As king, Solomon was to guide and direct a whole nation - more people than he could count. God spoke to him in a dream and offered him whatever he wanted. Solomon recognized that he was young, inexperienced, and did not know how to be a good king. Let's read from the Bible of what King Solomon asked for from the Lord.

## 7. Bible Story
Read 1 Kings 3:5-9 and tell the story from the Bible. Have your child act as Solomon while you read the story. You may have Bible Story time while seating on the floor or on the bed to reenact the scene in the Bible.

## 8. Story Retell
Questions - recall the story by asking them about the Bible Story:
1. What other things could have Solo- mon asked for?
2. Did God give him what he asked for?
3. What else did God give Solomon in addition to what he asked for?
4. What did God promise to Solomon & what was the condition for the promise?

## 9. Story Questions
1. Why do you think that God was pleased with Solomon's request?
2. What did Solomon accomplish because the Lord blessed him with wisdom & understanding?
3. How could you start gaining wisdom in your everyday life?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, Thank You for the life of King Solomon. Please help us all to be wise, to make wise decisions, to seek You and find You and to follow You all the days of our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen!



