---
week: 44
day: 1
title: 'ELIJAH AND THE FALSE PROPHETS'
bible: '1 KingS 18:25-39'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know the power of the 0ne true God
- For children to learn that God sometimes shows His power in amazing ways
- For children to discover the importance of prayer in God's plan for His people.

## 2. Note to Parent
- After the death of King Solomon, the nation of Israel was divided. There was a northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. The kingdom of Israel had: no kings who walked in the ways of the Lord. Because of this, the people started worshiping idols and disobeying God. During these years, God sent prophets to warn the people to repent and turn back to God. He wanted His people to be faithful to Him. A prophet is someone whom God uses to speak to His people.
- Elijah was one of those people. He was used to turn the heart of the people back to the Lord (1 Kings 18:37). James 5:16-18 tells us he was an ordinary human being but what made him effective in his day was his prayer life. In 1 Kings 18:30-46 we look at Elijah as a man of prayer. God works through the prayers of his people. - During Elijah's time, King Ahab together with his wife ruled. They did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord (I Kings 16:30; 21:25). He led the people to turn to Baal, a pagan god, & reject the Lord as the one true God. There was also drought in the land of Israel at this time. God, the one true God brought drought to Israel to show King Ahab and all the people that there is no one else who is powerful than Him. In the third & last year of drought God instructed Elijah to present himself to King Ahab. Since King Ahab was not following God, he did not like what Elijah had to say. God was about to show King Ahab and everyone else that He was the one true God so that the people would turn their worship of Ball & once again worship God.
- The Lord told Elijah to tell King Ahab to gather all of the people of Israel at Mount Carmel. Not only was King Ahab to gather the people, but he was to gather 450 prophets ot Baal and 400 other prophets that ate at Jezebel's table. Ahab did as he was told. All of the people and the prophets went to Mount Carmel to see Elijah. In I Kings 18:21, Elijah challenged the people of Israel to fully commit to God and stop dividing their hearts between Baal and God.
- Elijah called on God in prayer to prove to the worshipers; of Baal that HE is the one true God. By sending fire from heaven, He answered Elijah's prayers with awesome power, demonstrating His authority as the one true God. That same power is the same that Jesus from the dead, showing that Jesus is the Son of God. And showing us that apart from God we are hopeless. Elijah's life point us to the true and better prophet, the ultimate mediator, the King of Kings, Jesus.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, We praise and thank You for You are all-powerful and in control of everything. For everything that is happening in our lives, help us to trust in You. In Jesus name, Amen

## 4. Memory Verse:
1 Kings 18:37-38 "Answer me, 0 Lord, answer me, that this people may know that You, O Lord, are God, and that You have turned their hearts back." Then the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt offering and the wood and the stones and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench." 1 Kings 18:37-38 (Note: Elijah simply asked God to show the people that He is the true God and to turn the hearts of the people back to Himself.)

## 5. Story Opening
Which professional sports team would you be on, if you could?

## 6. Story Background
 A prophet is someone whom God uses to speak to His people. Elijah was one of those people. King Ahab did not like Elijah because God was speaking things against Ahab because he was following other gods. God was about to show King Ahab and everyone else that He was the one true God.

## 7. Bible Story
Read 1 Kings 18:25-29. As you tell the story you may draw what is happening in the passage.

## 8. Story Retell
Line Up - Have the children get in line by height, by age, by birthday, or alphabetically by first or last name. The first person starts by sharing the first incident of the story. The second person tells the next thing that happened and so on till the story is retold. You and other family members may join in as well. Help your child if he/she forgets a part of the story.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How many prophets of Baal offered sacrifices and what did they do?
2. How did the prophets feel when Baal would not answer? Why do you think Baal did not send fire?
3. What are kinds of things that can become more important to us than God? How can these good and wholesome things replace God in our hearts?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, You alone are worthy of our worship, help us to follow You all the days of our lives. Protect us from evil and evil people. In Jesus' name. Amen


