---
week: 44
day: 2
title: 'ELIJAH AND THE FALSE PROPHETS'
bible: '1 KingS 18:25-39'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to know the power of the 0ne true God
- For children to learn that God sometimes shows His power in amazing ways
- For children to discover the importance of prayer in God's plan for His people.


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- After the death of King Solomon, the nation of Israel was divided. There was a northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. The kingdom of Israel had: no kings who walked in the ways of the Lord. Because of this, the people started worshiping idols and disobeying God. During these years, God sent prophets to warn the people to repent and turn back to God. He wanted His people to be faithful to Him. A prophet is someone whom God uses to speak to His people.
- Elijah was one of those people. He was used to turn the heart of the people back to the Lord (1 Kings 18:37). James 5:16-18 tells us he was an ordinary human being but what made him effective in his day was his prayer life. In 1 Kings 18:30-46 we look at Elijah as a man of prayer. God works through the prayers of his people. - During Elijah's time, King Ahab together with his wife ruled. They did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord (I Kings 16:30; 21:25). He led the people to turn to Baal, a pagan god, & reject the Lord as the one true God. There was also drought in the land of Israel at this time. God, the one true God brought drought to Israel to show King Ahab and all the people that there is no one else who is powerful than Him. In the third & last year of drought God instructed Elijah to present himself to King Ahab. Since King Ahab was not following God, he did not like what Elijah had to say. God was about to show King Ahab and everyone else that He was the one true God so that the people would turn their worship of Ball & once again worship God.
- The Lord told Elijah to tell King Ahab to gather all of the people of Israel at Mount Carmel. Not only was King Ahab to gather the people, but he was to gather 450 prophets ot Baal and 400 other prophets that ate at Jezebel's table. Ahab did as he was told. All of the people and the prophets went to Mount Carmel to see Elijah. In I Kings 18:21, Elijah challenged the people of Israel to fully commit to God and stop dividing their hearts between Baal and God.
- Elijah called on God in prayer to prove to the worshipers; of Baal that HE is the one true God. By sending fire from heaven, He answered Elijah's prayers with awesome power, demonstrating His authority as the one true God. That same power is the same that Jesus from the dead, showing that Jesus is the Son of God. And showing us that apart from God we are hopeless. Elijah's life point us to the true and better prophet, the ultimate mediator, the King of Kings, Jesus.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, We praise and hornor You, the living, true God who can walk talk to. thank you that we can depend on you at all times . In Jesus name, Amen


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
1 Kings 18:37-38 "Answer me, 0 Lord, answer me, that this people may know that You, O Lord, are God, and that You have turned their hearts back." Then the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt offering and the wood and the stones and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench." 1 Kings 18:37-38 (Note: Elijah simply asked God to show the people that He is the true God and to turn the hearts of the people back to Himself.)


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Have you ever had to stand up for what you believe? What happened? Were you alone or did someone stand with you?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
Elijah was a man that spoke for God. Because of that he was called a proph- et. Since King Ahab was not following God, he did not like what Elijah had to say. Elijah is about to come to the King and his false prophets who worshipped Baal and prove who was the true God to be worshipped


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read 1 Kings 18:30-39. Continue your drawings from last time as you tell the story of how God displayed His power.


{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Group Poster - If you have the materials (paper, any coloring or drawing materials), have the children work together on making a poster that can tell the Bible story. You may also help your children create the poster. Allow the children to retell the story by using what they drew on the poster.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. How many prophets of God offered sacrifices?
2. Why did God respond to Elijah?
3. Elijah was a prophet sent from God to warn the people about idol worship and remind them to follow the one true God. This week, how can you stand up for God and obey Him?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God How important it is to follow You, the one true God. Help us to love you with all our heart, all our soul, and all our mind. Please be with us and use as to also share to others about You. In Jesus' name. Amen



