---
week: 45
day: 1
title: 'ELISHA HELPS A POOR WIDOW'
bible: '2 Kings 4 :1 -7'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to see how God is able to do amazing great things through seemingly ordinary situations when we trust Him
- For children to understand that God knows our needs and provides it as He promises
- For children to be aware of the importance of serving and being a blessing to others like Elisha


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- In this week's Bible story, the prophet Elijah has already: been taken to heaven (2 Kings 2:11). To continue ministering to Israel, God chose Elisha. Elisha was the disciple and successor of Elijah. He travelled throughout the northern kingdom of Israel displaying God's power through various miracles.
- Like Elisha there were also other prophets who were taught and discipled. In today's lesson we will see the life of a widow of one of the prophets. During this time, poor people and those who are in debt were allowed to pay their debts by selling themselves or their children as slaves. God ordered rich people and creditors not to take advantage of these people during their time of need (Deuteronomy 15:1-18). However, in the case of the widow, the creditor did not show compassion.
- Oil during this time is deemed to be valuable as it has many uses. It can be used in cooking, making perfumes or ointments, lighting lamps, and many more. Selling the oil would mean that the widow could pay her debts and have: enough for her and her sons needs. This demonstrates how God used Elisha to provide for the widow's needs.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, We thank You for bringing us together again to study and enjoy Your Word. Teach us and make us to be more like You as we apply what we will be learning today. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Psalm 23:1-3-1 The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want. 2 He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. 3He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for His name's sake. Psalm 23:1


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
If God could do a miracle in my family, what would it be?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
A prophet is a person who speaks for God. Last time we learned about the life of prophet Elijah. In today's Bible Story we will read on prophet Elisha. He took over the work that Elijah was doing when God took Elijah to heaven. Today we will read of an instance where God used Elisha.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Read and tell the story of 2 Kings 4:1-7. You may use props or role play the Bible story by asking your child or children to bring containers.



{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
RACE TO SEVEN
- Write each verse of 2 Kings 4:1-7 in a piece of paper. If your child has difficulty reading you may help by reading the verses on the piece of paper.
- Have your children arrange the verses according to what happened in the Bible. This can be a group effort, making sure everyone gets a turn, or you can create another set to see who can properly arrange the story in correct order.
- If your child/ children are having a difficult time remembering, you may start with arranging the strips of paper and taking away some parts. Then asking them which one happens next.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. Who were the different characters in the story?
2. What do you think was going on in the widow's heart and mind in this story?
3. What did you learn about GOD's faithfulness and provision through the life of the widow and her sons?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank you for encouraging and comforting us through this Bible story which demonstrates Your Faithfulness and overflowing provision! May we fully trust on You. In Jesus namel pray, Amen.


