---
week: 45
day: 2
title: 'ELISHA HELPS A POOR WIDOW'
bible: '2 Kings 4 :1 -7'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to see how God is able to do amazing great things through seemingly ordinary situations when we trust Him
- For children to understand that God knows our needs and provides it as He promises
- For children to be aware of the importance of serving and being a blessing to others like Elisha

## 2. Note to Parent
- In this week's Bible story, the prophet Elijah has already been taken to heaven (2 Kings 2:11). To continue ministering to Israel, God chose Elisha. Elisha was the disciple and successor of Elijah. He travelled throughout the northern kingdom of Israel displaying God's power through various miracles.
- Like Elisha there were also other prophets who were taught and discipled. In today's lesson we will see the life of a widow of one of the prophets. During this time, poor people and those who are in debt were allowed to pay their debts by selling themselves or their children as slaves. God ordered rich people and creditors not to take advantage of these people during their time of need (Deuteronomy 15:1-18). However, in the case of the widow, the creditor did not show compassion.
- Oil during this time is deemed to be valuable as it has many uses. It can be used in cooking, making perfumes or ointments, lighting lamps, and many more. Selling the oil would mean that the widow could pay her debts and have enough for her and her sons needs. This demonstrates how God used Elisha to provide for the widow's needs.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You that You are a promise-keeping God, who knows and supplies our needs. Help us to trust in You at all times. Bless our time as we study the Bible. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 23:1-3-1 The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want. 2He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. 3He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for His name's sake. Psalm 23:1 5

## 5. Story Opening
Who is someone you have helped or shared something with? How did they feel after you helped or shared?

## 6. Story Background
God is truly a God who knows our needs and provides them. Let us read our Bible story and imagine how the widow and his sons felt when God provided for them through Elisha.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and tell the story of 2 Kings 4:1-7. You may use props or role play the Bible story by asking your child or children to bring containers.


## 8. Story Retell
Fill the Jar
- Using the same strips of paper you have prepared on Day 1 Story Retell, ask children to again arrange the Bible Story according to the right sequence of events. Prepare 2 containers with one being smaller than the other. Place the bigger container away from the starting point.
- Your child/ children at the starting point will have to get the piece of paper that has the first verse according to the Bible Story. When your child correctly selects the piece of paper, he/she then gets the smaller container fill it with water then pour to the bigger container.
- You may start by simply removing 2-3 verses of the Bible story passage to help your child become more familiar. Once he/she is more familiar remove more verses.
- Repeat the steps till all the parts of the story are correctly arranged or keep doing the same steps till the bigger container has been filled with water
- If your child/ children are having difficulty reading, you may read the strips of paper.


## 9. Story Questions
1. What choices did the people (the widow, the sons, and Elisha) make? What else could they have done? What happened because of the choices they made?
2. How would you have felt if you were the widow or one of the sons of the widow?
3. Because of today's story, what difference might this make in how you love and serve God and others?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, We praise You for being loving and compassionate to us by providing our needs. Help us to always be thankful and be good stewards of these things. Remind us Lord to also help others who are in need. In Jesus name I pray, Amen.


