---
week: 46
day: 1
title: 'ELISHA BRINGS A BOY BACK TO LIFE'
bible: '2 Kings 4 :25-35'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that GOD answers prayers, and we should trust in HIM fully as we pray
- For children to see that God is all powerful and is in control of every situation
- For children learn to serve and pray for others as an expression of our love to them and to God

## 2. Note to Parent
- The prophet Elisha travels to different towns around Israel to do God's work. Because he moves from place to place, it might have been difficult to always find a place to: stay. Israelites during this time also welcomed their guests by providing meals and lodging to them. Whenever: Elisha was in Shunem, a Shunammite woman and her husband welcomed him to their home (2 kings 4:8-17).
- The Lord blessed the Shunammite woman with a son not because of what she did for the prophet Elisha, but because of her genuine concern towards the prophet.
- Gehazi is Elisha's servant who helped hím as he traveled from town to town.
- In 2 Kings 4:32-36, we can observe that Elisha's prayer and way of raising the dead shows God's personal care for people who are hurting. This is an example to us that we too should be sensitive and express genuine concern for others as we share God's love to them.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You again for this opportunity to know You more through Your Word. Thank You that You know us and see us. Help us to understand and obey what You would want us to learn today. In Jesus' Name we pray, Amen.

## 4. Memory Verse:
1 John 3:16-18 "16 By this we know love, that He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. 17 But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? 18 Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth." 1 John 3:16

## 5. Story Opening
Share something silly you once did.

## 6. Story Background
The prophet Elisha would go throughout Israel to give messages from God. An important woman from the city of Shunem invited Elisha to stay with her and her husband. They built a room on the top of their house so when Elisha would come by, he could stay with them. Elisha wanted to bless her. He found out that the woman did not have any children, so he prayed that the Lord would bless her with a child. The next year she had a son. The boy grew up and one day got really sick and died. The lady went immediately to Elisha

## 7. Bible Story
Before reading the Bible Story, you may also opt to share to children the verses before in 2 Kings 4:8-24 to provide a background. Read 2 Kings 4:25-35. To make story time more alive, tell the story as if you were Elisha. Stick to the Bible to not miss any parts or details.

## 8. Story Retell
Jack-and-Tell
- Play the usual jack-en-poy game with your child/children. You may also group your children or other family members in two's so that they play with the one they are partnered with.
- Like normal Jack-en-poy, facing each other, they simultaneously shake their fists while saying (or singing) the rhyme (either bato-bato-pick or jack-en-tell). As standard rule, the rock beats the scissor, scissor beats the paper, and paper beats the rock.
- The first loser of the round tells the first part of the story after which, they resume the game. Play continues until the whole story is told.


## 9. Story Questions
1. Why did the Shunammite woman go and see the prophet Elisha?
2. What were you imagining as the story was being told? How did it make you feel?
3. What did you learn from Elisha's life on being a prophet - servant of GOD?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, Thank You for today's Bible story. Thank You for blessing us with people around us who take care of us, but most especially thank You for being there for us all the time. Help us to also be a blessing to others. In Jesus' Name we pray, Amen.


