---
week: 46
day: 2
title: 'ELISHA BRINGS A BOY BACK TO LIFE'
bible: '2 Kings 4 :25-35'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to know that GOD answers prayers, and we should trust in HIM fully as we pray
- For children to see that God is all powerful and is in control of every situation
- For children to learn to serve and pray for others as an expression of our love to them and to God


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- The prophet Elisha travels to different towns around Israel to do God's work. Because he moves from place to place, it might have been difficult to always find a place to stay. Israelites during this time also welcomed their guests by providing meals and lodging to them. Whenever Elisha was in Shunem, a Shunammite woman and her husband welcomed him to their home (2 kings 4:8-17).
- The Lord blessed the Shunammite woman with a son not because of what she did for the prophet Elisha, but because of her genuine concern towards the prophet.
- Gehazi is Elisha's servant who helped him as he traveled from town to town.
- In 2 Kings 4:32-36, we can observe that Elisha's prayer and way of raising the dead shows God's personal care for people who are hurting. This is an example to us that we too should be sensitive and express genuine concern for others as we share God's love to them.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
 Dear God, We praise You for loving us and being a God who is able to do great things. Teach us to also love others and share Your love to them. Guide us as we study the Bible. In Jesus' Name we pray, Amen


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
1 John 3:16-18 "16 By this we know love, that He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. 17 But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? 18 Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth." 1 John 3:16


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
Finish the sentence: If given the chance, something I would do over again is ...


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
 Elisha was a man who did great things for God because he listened and obeyed God. Elisha was a prophet, someone whom God would speak through and God allowed him to do miracles. One day a friend of Elisha came to him because her son had gotten very sick and died.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Review the background of the story. Read 2 Kings 4:25-35. To make story time more alive, tell the story as if you were Gehazi, Elisha's servant. Stick to the Bible to not miss any parts or de- tails.



{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Guess the Character
- The objective of the retell is for your child/ children to identify the Bible character mentioned in the Bible.
- Write down each of the names of the Bible characters separately on a piece of paper. The characters are: Shunammite woman, Shunammite husband, Shunammite son, Gehazi, and Prophet Elisha.
- You, your child/ children, and other family members take turns picking a name. When a player picks a name, he or she must describe it to the other players without saying the name written on the paper.
- Once the name has been correctly guessed, the person who guessed correctly will be the next player.


{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What did Elisha do before approaching the Shunammite woman's dead son?
2. What surprised you or amazed you about today's story?
3. How can you be a blessing to others, like prophet Elisha?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, We praise You O God for your wonderful Word that tells us who You are. May we be always reminded that we can always pray and talk to You no matter what we are going through. In Jesus' Name we pray, Amen.



