---
week: 47
day: 1
title: 'ELISHA : NAAMA IS HEALED'
bible: '2 Kings 5 :01-15'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to understand the importance of listening and obeying God's instruction
- For children to learn that God uses and sends people to help us
- For children to know that God can do impossible things; like healing an incurable disease

## 2. Note to Parent
- Aram was the country northeast of Israel. This place is now modern-day Syria.
- Naaman was commander of the king's army in Aram. He was a brave and victorious Aramean commander who led various victories for his country. The king of the Arameans was pleased with Naaman's military victories and. referred to him as his servant (2 Kings 5:6), a term used for high officers in the army. Because of this status, he was probably a wealthy man.
- Naaman owned servants and a young girl from Israel was a servant to his wife. This little girl had been taken away from her parents in a raid and brought to this foreign country of Aram.
- Leprosy was a term for several skin diseases, during Bible times there was no cure. People with leprosy were highly contagious and had to be quarantined outside of the cities.
- When the prophet Elisha sent Naaman to wash in the Jordan River seven times, Naaman was furious with the instructions perhaps this is because the Jordan river was: a small and dirty river. As a person with position, he might have expected other solutions and not be humiliated. But when he humbled himself and obeyed, he was healed by God. This reminds us that when obeying God humility is required. We must trust that His ways are better and for our good

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for protecting us and keeping us safe. Thank You for giving us good health. May You continue to give us the strength and good health so that we can continue to learn more about You. In Jesus name, Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
Psalm 51:1-2-1 Have mercy on me, 0 God, according to your steadfast love; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions. 2 Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin! Psalm 51:2

## 5. Story Opening
Describe a time when you got really sick

## 6. Story Background
Naaman is one of the commanders of an army. Naaman was sick with a skin disease called leprosy. During this time, leprosy was a very serious dis- ease that had no cure. A Jewish girl told him to see the prophet, Elisha, for his healing.

## 7. Bible Story
Read 2 Kings 5:1-9. As you read, read it with feeling and different voices for the characters in the story to make story time more intersting


## 8. Story Retell
Hand Motions
- Go back through the Bible story and have your child/ children come up with different hand motions that would help them remember each part of the story. Keep going back through the story adding more hand motions until the story is retold.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Who were the different characters in the story?
2. What do you think was the most im- portant part of today's story?
3. Because of today's story, what might you do differently? How would you obey?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, Thank You for story of Naaman. Thank You for reminding us that with You nothing is impossible. Help us to learn how to listen and obey Your instructions. In Jesus name, Amen!


