---
week: 47
day: 2
title: 'ELISHA : NAAMA IS HEALED'
bible: '2 Kings 5 :01-15'
layout: lesson
---


{% include lesson/section.html index=1 %}
- For children to understand the importance of listening and obeying God's instruction
- For children to learn that God uses and sends people to help us
- For children to know that God can do impossible things; like healing an incurable disease


{% include lesson/section.html index=2 %}
- Aram was the country northeast of Israel. This place is now modern-day Syria.
- Naaman was commander of the king's army in Aram. He was a brave and victorious Aramean commander who led various victories for his country. The king of the Arameans was pleased with Naaman's military victories and referred to him as his servant (2 Kings 5:6), a term used for high officers in the army. Because of this status, he was probably a wealthy man.
- Naaman owned servants and a young girl from Israel was a servant to his wife. This little girl had been taken away from her parents in a raid and brought to this foreign country of Aram.
- Leprosy was a term for several skin diseases, during Bible times there was no cure. People with leprosy were highly contagious and had to be quarantined outside of the cities.
- When the prophet Elisha sent Naaman to wash in the Jordan River seven times, Naaman was furious with the instructions perhaps this is because the Jordan river was a small and dirty river. As a person with position, he might have expected other solutions and not be humiliated. But when he humbled himself and obeyed, he was healed by God. This reminds us that when obeying God humility is required. We must trust that His ways are better and for our good.


{% include lesson/section.html index=3 %}
Dear God, Thank You for giving us people that can help us and remind us of Your goodness. Help us to understand Your Word as we continue our study in the life of Naaman. In Jesus name, Amen!


{% include lesson/section.html index=4 %}
Psalm 51:1-2-1 Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions. 2 Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin! Psalm 51:2


{% include lesson/section.html index=5 %}
What is something strange that someone has asked you to do?


{% include lesson/section.html index=6 %}
The Jewish people were living in a country that was not their own. They became servants to the Armeans. One of the Armean captains became sick with a skin disease called leprosy, which had no cure at that time. A young servant girl told him to go see the prophet Elisha.


{% include lesson/section.html index=7 %}
Review the first part of the Bible Story and read and tell 2 Kings 5:10-15. You may act it out as you read it or ask your child to act it out.



{% include lesson/section.html index=8 %}
Comic Štrip - Give each child a sheet of paper. Have them fold it in half, then fold that half again and then a third time. When you open the paper, there should be 8 boxes on the paper. For each scene or action in the Bible story, have each child draw a simple picture or object in each box in the order that it happens in the story. Let your child/children retell the story to by using their comic strips.



{% include lesson/section.html index=9 %}
1. What choices did the Naaman? What else could he have done? What hap- pened because of the choices he made?
2. What do you think was going on in Naaman's heart and mind in this story?
3. From what you learned today, what do you feel God might be asking you to do?


{% include lesson/section.html index=10 %}
Dear God, Thank You for giving us people that can help and guide us in understanding Your Word. Help us to listen and obey Your instructions even though sometimes we uncomfortable about it. In Jesus name, Amen!



