---
week: 48
day: 1
title: 'JONAH PREACHES REPENTANCE'
bible: 'Jonah 1:17 & 3:1-6, 10'
layout: day
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God gives us another chance to listen and obey Him
- For children to understand that God wants us to repent from our sins and turn our hearts to Him because He loves us
- For children to realize that God will forgive us when we repent sincerely and whole heartedly

## 2. Note to Parent
* Like Elijah and Elisha, Jonah was a prophet. He prophesied prosperity for Israel during the reign of King Jeroboam II (2 Kings 14:23-28).
* During the time of Jonah, the nation of Assyria controlled a large portion of the area between the Mediterranean Sea and the Persian Gulf. This would often cause conflict with the nation of Israel because of the borders of both nations.
* God called Jonah and he disobeyed (Jonah 1)
- God sent Jonah to Nineveh, an enemy of Jonah's country, Israel to preach about repentance. Instead of obeying God, Jonah decided to go in the opposite way and boarded: a ship headed west. The city of Tarshish mentioned in Jonah 1:3 is possibly a place near Spain. This meant he was heading in the opposite direction of where God intended him to go.
- God caused a terrible storm to the ship which left Jonah: to ask the sailors to throw him into the sea. But Jonah did not drown because God sent a large fish to swallow him. He stayed there for three days and three nights. (Jonah 1:4-17)
* Jonah prayed to God from the inside of the fish. He thanked God for saving him. Then God delivers him and bring him to Nineveh (Jonah 2)
* In chapter 3 of Jonah, Jonah obeys God and warns the people of Nineveh to repent from their sins. The city repented, from the king down to the people.
* Like the people of Nineveh, God calls us to repent or turn away from our sins and choose to obey, love, and serve Him alone. We can repent from all the wrong things: we have done and make Jesus Christ our Savior and Lord: Because of Christ's death and resurrection, we like the people of Nineveh are given the choice to repent and follow Him.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for loving us unconditionally. Sorry for the times that we disobey your instructions and follow our own. Help us fully understand Your Word today. In Jesus name, Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
2 Peter 3:9 - The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. 2 Peter 3:9a

## 5. Story Opening
 Have you played hide and seek? Share an experience wherein you had a great hiding spot.

## 6. Story Background
God selects individuals who will speak His word to people so they will stay close to Him. These individuals are called prophets. Many times, they tell people to repent, to turn their hearts back to God, and to become obedient to Him. God called a man named Jonah to tell the people of the city of Nineveh to repent. Jonah was scared to go and decided to go the opposite way. Jonah eventually ends up in the belly of a big fish and decides to be obedient to what God has asked him.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and study Jonah 1:1-17. As you tell the story to your child, you may use hand motions to convey the Bible story

## 8. Story Retell
 Hide and Seek - For Hide and Seek there are 2 variations that you can choose from:
1. You will be the "it" and will have to count 1-10. As you count your child should find a hiding place. After you finish counting, look for your child/ children. As you look for your child ask him/her to retell a part of the story. The first person found will be the next it. Finish telling the story as you take turns hiding and seeking.
2. If you have a small space or if there are less than 3 people playing, you may instead hide objects and ask your child/ children to find them. Once a child finds an object, ask him/ her to tell a part of the story. Repeat the steps until the story is completely retold.

## 9. Story Questions
1. Who was Jonah and what did God tell him to do?
2. What do you think was going on in Jonah's heart and mind in this story?
3. From what you learned today, what do you feel God might be saying to you?

## 10. Closing Prayer.
Dear God, Thank You for not giving up on us even though we are sinners. May You give us the strength to overcome temptations so that we will not sin agaínst You. In Jesus name, Amen!

