---
week: 48
day: 2
title: 'JONAH PREACHES REPENTANCE'
bible: 'Jonah 1:17 & 3:1-6, 10'
---


{% include logo.html info=page %}

{% include day_head.html info=page %}

## 1. Devotion Objective
- For children to know that God gives us another chance to listen and obey Him
- For children to understand that God wants us to repent from our sins and turn our hearts to Him because He loves us
- For children to realize that God will forgive us when we repent sincerely and whole heartedly

## 2. Note to Parent
* Like Elijah and Elisha, Jonah was a prophet. He prophesied prosperity for Israel during the reign of King Jeroboam II (2 Kings 14:23-28).

*During the time of Jonah, the nation of Assyria controlled a large portion of the area between the Mediterranean Sea and the Persian Gulf. This would often cause conflict with the nation of Israel because of the borders of both nations.

* God called Jonah and he disobeyed (Jonah 1)
- God sent Jonah to Nineveh, an enemy of Jonah's country, Israel to preach about repentance. Instead of obeying God, Jonah decided to go in the opposite way and boarded a ship headed west. The city of Tarshish mentioned in Jonah 1:3 is possibly a place near Spain. This meant he was heading in the opposite direction of where God intended him to go.

- God caused a terrible storm to the ship which left Jonah to ask the sailors to throw him into the sea. But Jonah did not drown because God sent a large fish to swallow him. He stayed there for three days and three nights. (Jonah 1:4-17)

* Jonah prayed to God from the inside of the fish. He thanked God for saving him. Then God delivers him and bring him to Nineveh (Jonah 2)
* In chapter 3 of Jonah, Jonah obeys God and warns the people of Nineveh to repent from their sins. The city repented, from the king down to the people.
* Like the people of Nineveh, God calls us to repent or turn away from our sins and choose to obey, love, and serve Him alone. We can repent from all the wrong things: we have done and make Jesus Christ our Savior and Lord: Because of Christ's death and resurrection, we like the people of Nineveh are given the choice to repent and tallow Him.

## 3. Opening Prayer
Dear God, Thank You for being patient with us. Thank You for giving us a chance to repent for our sins. Help us to fully turn away from it. In Jesus name, Amen!

## 4. Memory Verse:
2 Peter 3:9 The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. 2 Peter 3:9a

## 5. Story Opening
Have you ever needed to be rescued or have you been lost? What did you feel?

## 6. Story Background
The people in Nineveh are very mean. They do harmful things to people. God wants them to repent and to turn their hearts to Him. He asks His prophet, Jonah, to go. Jonah disobeys and goes the opposite direction. Jonah ends up in the belly of a big fish where he decides that he needs to obey God. Then Jonah finds himself on the seashore and walks to Nineveh.

## 7. Bible Story
Read and study Jonah 3:1-6, 10. You may review what happened in Jonah chapter 1 then proceed to Jonah 3:1-6, 10. Use actions or hand motions as you tell the story.

## 8. Story Retell
Beginning, Middle, End Get a piece of paper and divide it into 3 columns. Write down "Beginning" in the first column and then allow your child to write down what he/she remember as the story starts. Then "Middle" in the second column and allow your child to write down what happened in the story. And lastly "End" on the last column and allow your child to write down how the story ends and what he/she learned from today's story.

## 9. Story Questions
1. How did the people in Nineveh respond to God's warning?
2. What is something you learned today about God?
3. Like Jonal to who can you share about God's love this week? Pray for that person and share that Jesus loves them.

## 10. Closing Prayer.
 Dear God, Thank You for sending people like Jonah that reminds us to repent from our sins. I know it will be hard. Help us to really turn away from our sins. In Jesus name, Amen!


